website/docs/reference/dbt-classes.md, before:

---
title: "dbt Classes"
---

dbt has a number of classes it uses to represent objects in a <Term id="data-warehouse" />, parts of a dbt project, and the results of a command.

These classes are often useful when building advanced dbt models and macros.

## Relation

The `Relation` object is used to interpolate schema and <Term id="table" /> names into SQL code with appropriate quoting. This object should _always_ be used instead of interpolating values with `{{ schema }}.{{ table }}` directly. Quoting of the Relation object can be configured using the [`quoting` config](/reference/project-configs/quoting).

### Creating relations

A `Relation` can be created by calling the `create` class method on the `Relation` class.

<File name='Relation.create'>

```python
class Relation:
  def create(database=None, schema=None, identifier=None,
             type=None):
  """
    database (optional): The name of the database for this relation
    schema (optional): The name of the schema (or dataset, if on BigQuery) for this relation
    identifier (optional): The name of the identifier for this relation
    type (optional): Metadata about this relation, eg: "table", "view", "cte"
  """
```

</File>

### Using relations

Use relations in your SQL code by wrapping them in double curly brackets `{{ }}` (such as the [Jinja function {{ this }}](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/this)). For example:

<File name='relation_usage.sql'>

```jinja2
{% set relation = api.Relation.create(schema='snowplow', identifier='events') %}

-- Return the `database` for this relation
{{ relation.database }}

-- Return the `schema` (or dataset) for this relation
{{ relation.schema }}

-- Return the `identifier` for this relation
{{ relation.identifier }}

-- Return relation name without the database
{{ relation.include(database=false) }}

-- Return true if the relation is a table
{{ relation.is_table }}

-- Return true if the relation is a view
{{ relation.is_view }}

-- Return true if the relation is a cte
{{ relation.is_cte }}

```

</File>


## Column
The `Column` object is used to encode information about a column in a relation.

<File name='column.py'>

```python
class Column(object):
  def __init__(self, column, dtype, char_size=None, numeric_size=None):
    """
      column: The name of the column represented by this object
      dtype: The data type of the column (database-specific)
      char_size: If dtype is a variable width character type, the size of the column, or else None
      numeric_size: If dtype is a fixed precision numeric type, the size of the column, or else None
   """


# Example usage:
col = Column('name', 'varchar', 255)
col.is_string() # True
col.is_numeric() # False
col.is_number() # False
col.is_float() # False
col.string_type() # character varying(255)
col.numeric_type('numeric', 12, 4) # numeric(12,4)
```

</File>

### Column API

### Properties

- **name**: Returns the name of the column
- **quoted**: Returns the name of the column wrapped in quotes
- **data_type**: Returns the data type of the column

### Instance methods

<Changelog>

 The `is_number` and `is_float` instance methods were added dbt v0.16.0

</Changelog>

- **is_string()**: Returns True if the column is a String type (eg. text, varchar), else False
- **is_numeric()**: Returns True if the column is a fixed-precision Numeric type (eg. `numeric`), else False
- **is_number()**: Returns True if the column is a number-y type (eg. `numeric`, `int`, `float`, or similar), else False
- **is_float()**: Returns True if the column is a float type (eg. `float`, `float64`, or similar), else False
- **string_size()**: Returns the width of the column if it is a string type, else, an exception is raised

### Static methods
- **string_type(size)**:  Returns a database-useable representation of the string type (eg. `character varying(255)`)
- **numeric_type(dtype, precision, scale)**: Returns a database-useable representation of the numeric type (eg. `numeric(12, 4)`)

### Using columns

<File name='column_usage.sql'>

```jinja2
-- String column
{%- set string_column = api.Column('name', 'varchar', char_size=255) %}

-- Return true if the column is a string
{{ string_column.is_string() }}

-- Return true if the column is a numeric
{{ string_column.is_numeric() }}

-- Return true if the column is a number
{{ string_column.is_number() }}

-- Return true if the column is a float
{{ string_column.is_float() }}

-- Numeric column
{%- set numeric_column = api.Column('distance_traveled', 'numeric', numeric_precision=12, numeric_scale=4) %}

-- Return true if the column is a string
{{ numeric_column.is_string() }}

-- Return true if the column is a numeric
{{ numeric_column.is_numeric() }}

-- Return true if the column is a number
{{ numeric_column.is_number() }}

-- Return true if the column is a float
{{ numeric_column.is_float() }}

-- Static methods

-- Return the string data type for this database adapter with a given size
{{ api.Column.string_type(255) }}

-- Return the numeric data type for this database adapter with a given precision and scale
{{ api.Column.numeric_type('numeric', 12, 4) }}
```

</File>

## BigQuery columns
The `Column` type is overridden as a `BigQueryColumn` in BigQuery dbt projects. This object works the same as the `Column` type described above, with the exception of extra properties and methods:

### Properties
- **fields**: Returns the list of subfields contained within a field (if the column is a STRUCT)
- **mode**: Returns the "mode" of the column, eg. `REPEATED`

### Instance methods
**flatten()**: Return a flattened list of `BigQueryColumns` in which subfields are expanded into their own columns. For example, this nested field:

```
[{"hits": {"pageviews": 1, "bounces": 0}}]
```

will be expanded to:
```
[{"hits.pageviews": 1, "hits.bounces": 0}]
```

## Result objects

<Changelog>

* `v0.19.0`: The `Result` object significantly changed its schema. See https://schemas.getdbt.com/dbt/run-results/v1.json for the full specification.

</Changelog>

The execution of a resource in dbt generates a `Result` object. This object contains information about the executed node, timing, status, and metadata returned by the adapter. At the end of an invocation, dbt records these objects in [`run_results.json`](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json).

- `node`: Full object representation of the dbt resource (model, seed, snapshot, test) executed, including its `unique_id`
- `status`: dbt's interpretation of runtime success, failure, or error
- `thread_id`: Which thread executed this node? E.g. `Thread-1`
- `execution_time`: Total time spent executing this node, measured in seconds.
- `timing`: Array that breaks down execution time into steps (often `compile` + `execute`)
- `message`: How dbt will report this result on the CLI, based on information returned from the database

import RowsAffected from '/snippets/_run-result.md'; 

<RowsAffected/>

Commit message:

clarify this per convo w joel

website/docs/reference/dbt-classes.md, after:

---
title: "dbt Classes"
---

dbt has a number of classes it uses to represent objects in a <Term id="data-warehouse" />, parts of a dbt project, and the results of a command.

These classes are often useful when building advanced dbt models and macros.

## Relation

The `Relation` object is used to interpolate schema and <Term id="table" /> names into SQL code with appropriate quoting. This object should _always_ be used instead of interpolating values with `{{ schema }}.{{ table }}` directly. Quoting of the Relation object can be configured using the [`quoting` config](/reference/project-configs/quoting).

dbt provides built-in relations, such as [`this`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/this), [`source`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/source), [`ref`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/ref).

### Creating relations

A `Relation` can be created by calling the `create` class method on the `Relation` class.

<File name='Relation.create'>

```python
class Relation:
  def create(database=None, schema=None, identifier=None,
             type=None):
  """
    database (optional): The name of the database for this relation
    schema (optional): The name of the schema (or dataset, if on BigQuery) for this relation
    identifier (optional): The name of the identifier for this relation
    type (optional): Metadata about this relation, eg: "table", "view", "cte"
  """
```

</File>

### Using relations

Use relations in your SQL code by wrapping them in double curly brackets `{{ }}` (such as the [Jinja function {{ this }}](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/this)). For example:

<File name='relation_usage.sql'>

```jinja2
{% set relation = api.Relation.create(schema='snowplow', identifier='events') %}

-- Return the `database` for this relation
{{ relation.database }}

-- Return the `schema` (or dataset) for this relation
{{ relation.schema }}

-- Return the `identifier` for this relation
{{ relation.identifier }}

-- Return relation name without the database
{{ relation.include(database=false) }}

-- Return true if the relation is a table
{{ relation.is_table }}

-- Return true if the relation is a view
{{ relation.is_view }}

-- Return true if the relation is a cte
{{ relation.is_cte }}

```

</File>


## Column
The `Column` object is used to encode information about a column in a relation.

<File name='column.py'>

```python
class Column(object):
  def __init__(self, column, dtype, char_size=None, numeric_size=None):
    """
      column: The name of the column represented by this object
      dtype: The data type of the column (database-specific)
      char_size: If dtype is a variable width character type, the size of the column, or else None
      numeric_size: If dtype is a fixed precision numeric type, the size of the column, or else None
   """


# Example usage:
col = Column('name', 'varchar', 255)
col.is_string() # True
col.is_numeric() # False
col.is_number() # False
col.is_float() # False
col.string_type() # character varying(255)
col.numeric_type('numeric', 12, 4) # numeric(12,4)
```

</File>

### Column API

### Properties

- **name**: Returns the name of the column
- **quoted**: Returns the name of the column wrapped in quotes
- **data_type**: Returns the data type of the column

### Instance methods

<Changelog>

 The `is_number` and `is_float` instance methods were added dbt v0.16.0

</Changelog>

- **is_string()**: Returns True if the column is a String type (eg. text, varchar), else False
- **is_numeric()**: Returns True if the column is a fixed-precision Numeric type (eg. `numeric`), else False
- **is_number()**: Returns True if the column is a number-y type (eg. `numeric`, `int`, `float`, or similar), else False
- **is_float()**: Returns True if the column is a float type (eg. `float`, `float64`, or similar), else False
- **string_size()**: Returns the width of the column if it is a string type, else, an exception is raised

### Static methods
- **string_type(size)**:  Returns a database-useable representation of the string type (eg. `character varying(255)`)
- **numeric_type(dtype, precision, scale)**: Returns a database-useable representation of the numeric type (eg. `numeric(12, 4)`)

### Using columns

<File name='column_usage.sql'>

```jinja2
-- String column
{%- set string_column = api.Column('name', 'varchar', char_size=255) %}

-- Return true if the column is a string
{{ string_column.is_string() }}

-- Return true if the column is a numeric
{{ string_column.is_numeric() }}

-- Return true if the column is a number
{{ string_column.is_number() }}

-- Return true if the column is a float
{{ string_column.is_float() }}

-- Numeric column
{%- set numeric_column = api.Column('distance_traveled', 'numeric', numeric_precision=12, numeric_scale=4) %}

-- Return true if the column is a string
{{ numeric_column.is_string() }}

-- Return true if the column is a numeric
{{ numeric_column.is_numeric() }}

-- Return true if the column is a number
{{ numeric_column.is_number() }}

-- Return true if the column is a float
{{ numeric_column.is_float() }}

-- Static methods

-- Return the string data type for this database adapter with a given size
{{ api.Column.string_type(255) }}

-- Return the numeric data type for this database adapter with a given precision and scale
{{ api.Column.numeric_type('numeric', 12, 4) }}
```

</File>

## BigQuery columns
The `Column` type is overridden as a `BigQueryColumn` in BigQuery dbt projects. This object works the same as the `Column` type described above, with the exception of extra properties and methods:

### Properties
- **fields**: Returns the list of subfields contained within a field (if the column is a STRUCT)
- **mode**: Returns the "mode" of the column, eg. `REPEATED`

### Instance methods
**flatten()**: Return a flattened list of `BigQueryColumns` in which subfields are expanded into their own columns. For example, this nested field:

```
[{"hits": {"pageviews": 1, "bounces": 0}}]
```

will be expanded to:
```
[{"hits.pageviews": 1, "hits.bounces": 0}]
```

## Result objects

<Changelog>

* `v0.19.0`: The `Result` object significantly changed its schema. See https://schemas.getdbt.com/dbt/run-results/v1.json for the full specification.

</Changelog>

The execution of a resource in dbt generates a `Result` object. This object contains information about the executed node, timing, status, and metadata returned by the adapter. At the end of an invocation, dbt records these objects in [`run_results.json`](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json).

- `node`: Full object representation of the dbt resource (model, seed, snapshot, test) executed, including its `unique_id`
- `status`: dbt's interpretation of runtime success, failure, or error
- `thread_id`: Which thread executed this node? E.g. `Thread-1`
- `execution_time`: Total time spent executing this node, measured in seconds.
- `timing`: Array that breaks down execution time into steps (often `compile` + `execute`)
- `message`: How dbt will report this result on the CLI, based on information returned from the database

import RowsAffected from '/snippets/_run-result.md'; 

<RowsAffected/>
