website/docs/reference/dbt_project.yml.md, before:

<Changelog>

- **v1.0.0:** The default config name for `data-paths` is now [`seed-paths`](/reference/project-configs/seed-paths), `source-paths` is now [`model-paths`](/reference/project-configs/model-paths) and `modules-path` is now [`packages-install-path`](/reference/project-configs/packages-install-path).

</Changelog>

Every [dbt project](/docs/build/projects) needs a `dbt_project.yml` file — this is how dbt knows a directory is a dbt project. It also contains important information that tells dbt how to operate on your project.

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.4">

By default, dbt will look for `dbt_project.yml` in your current working directory and its parents, but you can set a different directory using the `--project-dir` flag.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.5">

By default, dbt will look for `dbt_project.yml` in your current working directory and its parents, but you can set a different directory using the `--project-dir` flag or the `DBT_PROJECT_DIR` environment variable.

</VersionBlock>

The following is a list of all available configurations in the `dbt_project.yml` file.

:::info YAML syntax
dbt uses YAML in a few different places. If you're new to YAML, it would be worth taking the time to learn how arrays, dictionaries and strings are represented.
:::

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
[name](/reference/project-configs/name): string

[config-version](/reference/project-configs/config-version): 2
[version](/reference/project-configs/version): version

[profile](/reference/project-configs/profile): profilename

[model-paths](/reference/project-configs/model-paths): [directorypath]
[seed-paths](/reference/project-configs/seed-paths): [directorypath]
[test-paths](/reference/project-configs/test-paths): [directorypath]
[analysis-paths](/reference/project-configs/analysis-paths): [directorypath]
[macro-paths](/reference/project-configs/macro-paths): [directorypath]
[snapshot-paths](/reference/project-configs/snapshot-paths): [directorypath]
[docs-paths](/reference/project-configs/docs-paths): [directorypath]
[asset-paths](/reference/project-configs/asset-paths): [directorypath]

[target-path](/reference/project-configs/target-path): directorypath
[log-path](/reference/project-configs/log-path): directorypath
[packages-install-path](/reference/project-configs/packages-install-path): directorypath

[clean-targets](/reference/project-configs/clean-targets): [directorypath]

[query-comment](/reference/project-configs/query-comment): string

[require-dbt-version](/reference/project-configs/require-dbt-version): version-range | [version-range]

[quoting](/reference/project-configs/quoting):
  database: true | false
  schema: true | false
  identifier: true | false

models:
  [<model-configs>](/reference/model-configs)

seeds:
  [<seed-configs>](/reference/seed-configs)

snapshots:
  [<snapshot-configs>](/reference/snapshot-configs)

sources:
  [<source-configs>](source-configs)
  
tests:
  [<test-configs>](/reference/test-configs)

vars:
  [<variables>](/docs/build/project-variables)

[on-run-start](/reference/project-configs/on-run-start-on-run-end): sql-statement | [sql-statement]
[on-run-end](/reference/project-configs/on-run-start-on-run-end): sql-statement | [sql-statement]

[dispatch](/reference/project-configs/dispatch-config):
  - macro_namespace: packagename
    search_order: [packagename]

[restrict-access](/docs/collaborate/govern/model-access): true | false
```

</File>

Commit message:

clarify macro aren't support in project.yml file

website/docs/reference/dbt_project.yml.md, after:

<Changelog>

- **v1.0.0:** The default config name for `data-paths` is now [`seed-paths`](/reference/project-configs/seed-paths), `source-paths` is now [`model-paths`](/reference/project-configs/model-paths) and `modules-path` is now [`packages-install-path`](/reference/project-configs/packages-install-path).

</Changelog>

Every [dbt project](/docs/build/projects) needs a `dbt_project.yml` file — this is how dbt knows a directory is a dbt project. It also contains important information that tells dbt how to operate on your project.

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.4">

By default, dbt will look for `dbt_project.yml` in your current working directory and its parents, but you can set a different directory using the `--project-dir` flag.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.5">

By default, dbt will look for `dbt_project.yml` in your current working directory and its parents, but you can set a different directory using the `--project-dir` flag or the `DBT_PROJECT_DIR` environment variable.

</VersionBlock>

:::info YAML syntax

dbt uses YAML in a few different places. If you're new to YAML, it would be worth taking the time to learn how arrays, dictionaries and strings are represented.
:::

The following is a list of all available configurations in the `dbt_project.yml` file. Something to note, [Macro properties](/reference/macro-properties) aren't supported in the `dbt_project.yml` file:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yml
[name](/reference/project-configs/name): string

[config-version](/reference/project-configs/config-version): 2
[version](/reference/project-configs/version): version

[profile](/reference/project-configs/profile): profilename

[model-paths](/reference/project-configs/model-paths): [directorypath]
[seed-paths](/reference/project-configs/seed-paths): [directorypath]
[test-paths](/reference/project-configs/test-paths): [directorypath]
[analysis-paths](/reference/project-configs/analysis-paths): [directorypath]
[macro-paths](/reference/project-configs/macro-paths): [directorypath]
[snapshot-paths](/reference/project-configs/snapshot-paths): [directorypath]
[docs-paths](/reference/project-configs/docs-paths): [directorypath]
[asset-paths](/reference/project-configs/asset-paths): [directorypath]

[target-path](/reference/project-configs/target-path): directorypath
[log-path](/reference/project-configs/log-path): directorypath
[packages-install-path](/reference/project-configs/packages-install-path): directorypath

[clean-targets](/reference/project-configs/clean-targets): [directorypath]

[query-comment](/reference/project-configs/query-comment): string

[require-dbt-version](/reference/project-configs/require-dbt-version): version-range | [version-range]

[quoting](/reference/project-configs/quoting):
  database: true | false
  schema: true | false
  identifier: true | false

models:
  [<model-configs>](/reference/model-configs)

seeds:
  [<seed-configs>](/reference/seed-configs)

snapshots:
  [<snapshot-configs>](/reference/snapshot-configs)

sources:
  [<source-configs>](source-configs)
  
tests:
  [<test-configs>](/reference/test-configs)

vars:
  [<variables>](/docs/build/project-variables)

[on-run-start](/reference/project-configs/on-run-start-on-run-end): sql-statement | [sql-statement]
[on-run-end](/reference/project-configs/on-run-start-on-run-end): sql-statement | [sql-statement]

[dispatch](/reference/project-configs/dispatch-config):
  - macro_namespace: packagename
    search_order: [packagename]

[restrict-access](/docs/collaborate/govern/model-access): true | false
```

</File>
