website/docs/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc.md, before:

---
title: "JDBC"
id: sl-jdbc
description: "Integrate and use the JDBC API to query your metrics."
tags: [Semantic Layer, API]
---


<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.5">

import LegacyInfo from '/snippets/_legacy-sl-callout.md';

<LegacyInfo />

</VersionBlock>

The dbt Semantic Layer Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) API enables users to query metrics and dimensions using the JDBC protocol, while also providing standard metadata functionality. 

A JDBC driver is a software component enabling a Java application to interact with a data platform. Here's some more information about our JDBC API:

- The Semantic Layer JDBC API utilizes the open-source JDBC driver with ArrowFlight SQL protocol.
- You can download the JDBC driver from [Maven](https://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=org/apache/arrow/flight-sql-jdbc-driver/12.0.0/flight-sql-jdbc-driver-12.0.0.jar). 
- The dbt Semantic Layer supports ArrowFlight SQL driver version 12.0.0 and higher. 
- You can embed the driver into your application stack as needed, and you can use dbt Labs' [example project](https://github.com/dbt-labs/example-semantic-layer-clients) for reference.
- If you’re a partner or user building a homegrown application, you’ll need to install an AWS root CA to the Java Trust [documentation](https://www.amazontrust.com/repository/) (specific to Java and JDBC call).

dbt Labs partners can use the JDBC API to build integrations in their tools with the dbt Semantic Layer

## Using the JDBC API

If you are a dbt user or partner with access to dbt Cloud and the [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl), you can [setup](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl) and test this API with data from your own instance by configuring the Semantic Layer and obtaining the right JDBC connection parameters described in this document.

Refer to [Get started with the dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/quickstart-sl) for more info.

## Authentication

dbt Cloud authorizes requests to the dbt Semantic Layer API. You need to provide an environment ID, host, and [service account tokens](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens).

## Connection parameters

The JDBC connection requires a few different connection parameters. 

This is an example of a URL connection string and the individual components: 

```
jdbc:arrow-flight-sql://semantic-layer.cloud.getdbt.com:443?&environmentId=202339&token=SERVICE_TOKEN
```

| JDBC parameter | Description | Example |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- |
| `jdbc:arrow-flight-sql://` | The protocol for the JDBC driver.  | `jdbc:arrow-flight-sql://` |
| `semantic-layer.cloud.getdbt.com` | The [access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/regions-ip-addresses) for your account's dbt Cloud region. You must always add the `semantic-layer` prefix before the access URL.  | For dbt Cloud deployment hosted in North America, use `semantic-layer.cloud.getdbt.com`  |
| `environmentId` | The unique identifier for the dbt production environment, you can retrieve this from the dbt Cloud URL <br /> when you navigate to **Environments** under **Deploy**. | If your URL ends with `.../environments/222222`, your `environmentId` is `222222`<br /><br />   |
| `SERVICE_TOKEN` | dbt Cloud [service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) with “Semantic Layer Only” and "Metadata Only" permissions. Create a new service token on the **Account Settings** page. | `token=SERVICE_TOKEN` |

*Note &mdash; If you're testing locally on a tool like DataGrip, you may also have to provide the following variable at the end or beginning of the JDBC URL `&disableCertificateVerification=true`.

## Querying the API for metric metadata

The Semantic Layer JDBC API has built-in metadata calls which can provide a user with information about their metrics and dimensions. Here are some metadata commands and examples:

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="allmetrics" label="Fetch all defined metrics">

Use this query to fetch all defined metrics in your dbt project:

```bash
select * from {{ 
	semantic_layer.metrics() 
}}
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="alldimensions" label="Fetch all dimensions for a metric">

Use this query to fetch all dimensions for a metric. 

Note, `metrics` is a required argument that lists one or multiple metrics in it.

```bash
select * from {{ 
	semantic_layer.dimensions(metrics=['food_order_amount'])}}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="dimensionvalueformetrics" label="Fetch dimension values metrics">

Use this query to fetch dimension values for one or multiple metrics and single dimension. 

Note, `metrics` is a required argument that lists one or multiple metrics in it, and a single dimension. 

```bash
select * from {{ 
semantic_layer.dimension_values(metrics=['food_order_amount'], group_by=['customer__customer_name'])}}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="queryablegranularitiesformetrics" label="Fetch queryable primary time granularities for metrics">

Use this query to fetch queryable granularities for a list of metrics. This API request allows you to only show the time granularities that make sense for the primary time dimension of the metrics (such as `metric_time`), but if you want queryable granularities for other time dimensions, you can use the `dimensions()` call, and find the column queryable_granularities.

Note, `metrics` is a required argument that lists one or multiple metrics in it.

```bash
select * from {{
    semantic_layer.queryable_granularities(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'])}}
```

</TabItem>


<TabItem value="metricsfordimensions" label="Fetch available metrics given dimensions">

Use this query to fetch available metrics given dimensions. This command is essentially the opposite of getting dimensions given a list of metrics.

Note, `group_by` is a required argument that lists one or multiple dimensions in it.

```bash
select * from {{
    semantic_layer.metrics_for_dimensions(group_by=['customer__customer_type'])

}}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="queryablegranularitiesalltimedimensions" label="Fetch queryable granularities for all time dimensions">

Use this example query to fetch available granularities for all time dimesensions (the similar queryable granularities API call only returns granularities for the primary time dimensions for metrics). The following call is a derivative of the `dimensions()` call and specifically selects the granularities field.

```bash
select NAME, QUERYABLE_GRANULARITIES from {{
    semantic_layer.dimensions(
        metrics=["order_total"]
    )
}}

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetchprimarytimedimensionnames" label="Determine what time dimension(s) make up metric_time for your metric(s)">

It may be useful in your application to expose the names of the time dimensions that represent `metric_time` or the common thread across all metrics.
You can first query the `metrics()` argument to fetch a list of measures, then use the `measures()` call which will return the name(s) of the time dimensions that make up metric time. 

```bash
select * from {{
    semantic_layer.measures(metrics=['orders'])
}}
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Querying the API for metric values

To query metric values, here are the following parameters that are available:

| Parameter | Description  | Example    | Type |
| --------- | -----------| ------------ | -------------------- |
| `metrics`   | The metric name as defined in your dbt metric configuration   | `metrics=['revenue']` | Required    |
| `group_by`  | Dimension names or entities to group by. We require a reference to the entity of the dimension (other than for the primary time dimension), which is pre-appended to the front of the dimension name with a double underscore. | `group_by=['user__country', 'metric_time']`     | Optional   |
| `grain`   | A parameter specific to any time dimension and changes the grain of the data from the default for the metric. | `group_by=[Dimension('metric_time')` <br/> `grain('week\|day\|month\|quarter\|year')]` | Optional     |
| `where`     | A where clause that allows you to filter on dimensions and entities using parameters  - comes with `TimeDimension`, `Dimension`, and `Entity` objects. Granularity is required with `TimeDimension`  | `"{{ where=Dimension('customer__country') }} = 'US')"`   | Optional   |
| `limit`   | Limit the data returned    | `limit=10` | Optional  |
|`order`  | Order the data returned     | `order_by=['-order_gross_profit']` (remove `-` for ascending order)  | Optional   |
| `compile`   | If true, returns generated SQL for the data platform but does not execute | `compile=True`   | Optional |


## Note on time dimensions and `metric_time`

You will notice that in the list of dimensions for all metrics, there is a dimension called `metric_time`. `Metric_time` is a reserved keyword for the measure-specific aggregation time dimensions. For any time-series metric, the `metric_time` keyword should always be available for use in queries. This is a common dimension across *all* metrics in a semantic graph. 

You can look at a single metric or hundreds of metrics, and if you group by `metric_time`, it will always give you the correct time series.

Additionally, when performing granularity calculations that are global (not specific to a particular time dimension), we recommend you always operate on `metric_time` and you will get the correct answer. 

Note that `metric_time` should be available in addition to any other time dimensions that are available for the metric(s). In the case where you are looking at one metric (or multiple metrics from the same data source), the values in the series for the primary time dimension and `metric_time` are equivalent.


## Examples

Refer to the following examples to help you get started with the JDBC API.

### Fetch metadata for metrics

You can filter/add any SQL outside of the templating syntax. For example, you can use the following query to fetch the name and dimensions for a metric: 

```bash
select name, dimensions from {{ 
	semantic_layer.metrics() 
	}}
	WHERE name='food_order_amount'
``` 

### Query common dimensions

You can select common dimensions for multiple metrics. Use the following query to fetch the name and dimensions for multiple metrics: 

```bash
select * from {{ 
	semantic_layer.dimensions(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'])
	}}
``` 

### Query grouped by time

The following example query uses the [shorthand method](#faqs) to fetch revenue and new customers grouped by time:

```bash
select * from {{
	semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount','order_gross_profit'], 
	group_by=['metric_time'])
	}}
``` 

### Query with a time grain

Use the following example query to fetch multiple metrics with a change in time dimension granularities:

```bash
select * from {{
	semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'], 
	group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month')])
	}}
```

### Group by categorical dimension

Use the following query to group by a categorical dimension:

```bash
select * from {{
	semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'], 
	group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'), 'customer__customer_type'])
	}}
``` 

### Query with where filters

Where filters in API allow for a filter list or string. We recommend using the filter list for production applications as this format will realize all benefits from the <Term id="predicate-pushdown"  /> where possible. 

Where filters have the following components that you can use:

- `Dimension()` - This is used for any categorical or time dimensions. If used for a time dimension, granularity is required -  `Dimension('metric_time').grain('week')` or `Dimension('customer__country')`

- `TimeDimension()` - This is used for all time dimensions and requires a granularity argument - `TimeDimension('metric_time', 'MONTH)`

- `Entity()` - This is used for entities like primary and foreign keys - `Entity('order_id')`


Use the following example to query using a `where` filter with the string format:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'),'customer__customer_type'],
where="{{ TimeDimension('metric_time', 'MONTH') }} >= '2017-03-09' AND {{ Dimension('customer__customer_type' }} in ('new') AND {{ Entity('order_id') }} = 10")
}}
```

Use the following example to query using a `where` filter with a filter list format:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'),'customer__customer_type'],
where=[{{ TimeDimension('metric_time', 'MONTH')}} >= '2017-03-09', {{ Dimension('customer__customer_type' }} in ('new'), {{ Entity('order_id') }} = 10])
}}
```

### Query with a limit and order by

Use the following example to query using a `limit` or `order_by` clauses:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
  group_by=[Dimension('metric_time')],
  limit=10,
  order_by=['order_gross_profit'])
  }}
``` 
### Query with compile keyword

Use the following example to query using a `compile` keyword:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
		group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'),'customer__customer_type'],
		compile=True)
		}}
```

## FAQs

- **Why do some dimensions use different syntax, like `metric_time` versus `[Dimension('metric_time')`?**<br />
	When you select a dimension on its own, such as `metric_time` you can use the shorthand method which doesn't need the “Dimension” syntax. However, when you perform operations on the dimension, such as adding granularity, the object syntax `[Dimension('metric_time')` is required. 

- **What does the double underscore `"__"` syntax in dimensions mean?**<br />
	The double underscore `"__"` syntax indicates a mapping from an entity to a dimension, as well as where the dimension is located. For example, `user__country` means someone is looking at the `country` dimension from the `user` table.

- **What is the default output when adding granularity?**<br />
	The default output follows the format `{time_dimension_name}__{granularity_level}`. So for example, if the time dimension name is `ds` and the granularity level is yearly, the output is `ds__year`.

## Related docs

- [dbt Semantic Layer integration best practices](/guides/dbt-ecosystem/sl-partner-integration-guide)

Commit message:

jdbc clarification
We were getting some questions about the generic driver piece so I decided to add it to the jdbc doc itself. It already exists in available integrations. Additionally, I made one change to the available integrations page.

website/docs/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc.md, after:

---
title: "JDBC"
id: sl-jdbc
description: "Integrate and use the JDBC API to query your metrics."
tags: [Semantic Layer, API]
---


<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.5">

import LegacyInfo from '/snippets/_legacy-sl-callout.md';

<LegacyInfo />

</VersionBlock>

The dbt Semantic Layer Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) API enables users to query metrics and dimensions using the JDBC protocol, while also providing standard metadata functionality. 

A JDBC driver is a software component enabling a Java application to interact with a data platform. Here's some more information about our JDBC API:

- The Semantic Layer JDBC API utilizes the open-source JDBC driver with ArrowFlight SQL protocol.
- You can download the JDBC driver from [Maven](https://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=org/apache/arrow/flight-sql-jdbc-driver/12.0.0/flight-sql-jdbc-driver-12.0.0.jar). 
- The dbt Semantic Layer supports ArrowFlight SQL driver version 12.0.0 and higher. 
- You can embed the driver into your application stack as needed, and you can use dbt Labs' [example project](https://github.com/dbt-labs/example-semantic-layer-clients) for reference.
- If you’re a partner or user building a homegrown application, you’ll need to install an AWS root CA to the Java Trust [documentation](https://www.amazontrust.com/repository/) (specific to Java and JDBC call).

dbt Labs partners can use the JDBC API to build integrations in their tools with the dbt Semantic Layer

## Using the JDBC API

If you are a dbt user or partner with access to dbt Cloud and the [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl), you can [setup](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl) and test this API with data from your own instance by configuring the Semantic Layer and obtaining the right JDBC connection parameters described in this document.

You *may* be able to use our JDBC API with tools that do not have an official integration with the dbt Semantic Layer. If the tool you use allows you to write SQL and either supports a generic JDBC driver option (such as DataGrip) or supports Dremio and uses ArrowFlightSQL driver version 12.0.0 or higher, you can access the Semantic Layer API.

Refer to [Get started with the dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/quickstart-sl) for more info.

## Authentication

dbt Cloud authorizes requests to the dbt Semantic Layer API. You need to provide an environment ID, host, and [service account tokens](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens).

## Connection parameters

The JDBC connection requires a few different connection parameters. 

This is an example of a URL connection string and the individual components: 

```
jdbc:arrow-flight-sql://semantic-layer.cloud.getdbt.com:443?&environmentId=202339&token=SERVICE_TOKEN
```

| JDBC parameter | Description | Example |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------- |
| `jdbc:arrow-flight-sql://` | The protocol for the JDBC driver.  | `jdbc:arrow-flight-sql://` |
| `semantic-layer.cloud.getdbt.com` | The [access URL](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/regions-ip-addresses) for your account's dbt Cloud region. You must always add the `semantic-layer` prefix before the access URL.  | For dbt Cloud deployment hosted in North America, use `semantic-layer.cloud.getdbt.com`  |
| `environmentId` | The unique identifier for the dbt production environment, you can retrieve this from the dbt Cloud URL <br /> when you navigate to **Environments** under **Deploy**. | If your URL ends with `.../environments/222222`, your `environmentId` is `222222`<br /><br />   |
| `SERVICE_TOKEN` | dbt Cloud [service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) with “Semantic Layer Only” and "Metadata Only" permissions. Create a new service token on the **Account Settings** page. | `token=SERVICE_TOKEN` |

*Note &mdash; If you're testing locally on a tool like DataGrip, you may also have to provide the following variable at the end or beginning of the JDBC URL `&disableCertificateVerification=true`.

## Querying the API for metric metadata

The Semantic Layer JDBC API has built-in metadata calls which can provide a user with information about their metrics and dimensions. Here are some metadata commands and examples:

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="allmetrics" label="Fetch all defined metrics">

Use this query to fetch all defined metrics in your dbt project:

```bash
select * from {{ 
	semantic_layer.metrics() 
}}
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="alldimensions" label="Fetch all dimensions for a metric">

Use this query to fetch all dimensions for a metric. 

Note, `metrics` is a required argument that lists one or multiple metrics in it.

```bash
select * from {{ 
	semantic_layer.dimensions(metrics=['food_order_amount'])}}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="dimensionvalueformetrics" label="Fetch dimension values metrics">

Use this query to fetch dimension values for one or multiple metrics and single dimension. 

Note, `metrics` is a required argument that lists one or multiple metrics in it, and a single dimension. 

```bash
select * from {{ 
semantic_layer.dimension_values(metrics=['food_order_amount'], group_by=['customer__customer_name'])}}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="queryablegranularitiesformetrics" label="Fetch queryable primary time granularities for metrics">

Use this query to fetch queryable granularities for a list of metrics. This API request allows you to only show the time granularities that make sense for the primary time dimension of the metrics (such as `metric_time`), but if you want queryable granularities for other time dimensions, you can use the `dimensions()` call, and find the column queryable_granularities.

Note, `metrics` is a required argument that lists one or multiple metrics in it.

```bash
select * from {{
    semantic_layer.queryable_granularities(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'])}}
```

</TabItem>


<TabItem value="metricsfordimensions" label="Fetch available metrics given dimensions">

Use this query to fetch available metrics given dimensions. This command is essentially the opposite of getting dimensions given a list of metrics.

Note, `group_by` is a required argument that lists one or multiple dimensions in it.

```bash
select * from {{
    semantic_layer.metrics_for_dimensions(group_by=['customer__customer_type'])

}}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="queryablegranularitiesalltimedimensions" label="Fetch queryable granularities for all time dimensions">

Use this example query to fetch available granularities for all time dimesensions (the similar queryable granularities API call only returns granularities for the primary time dimensions for metrics). The following call is a derivative of the `dimensions()` call and specifically selects the granularities field.

```bash
select NAME, QUERYABLE_GRANULARITIES from {{
    semantic_layer.dimensions(
        metrics=["order_total"]
    )
}}

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetchprimarytimedimensionnames" label="Determine what time dimension(s) make up metric_time for your metric(s)">

It may be useful in your application to expose the names of the time dimensions that represent `metric_time` or the common thread across all metrics.
You can first query the `metrics()` argument to fetch a list of measures, then use the `measures()` call which will return the name(s) of the time dimensions that make up metric time. 

```bash
select * from {{
    semantic_layer.measures(metrics=['orders'])
}}
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Querying the API for metric values

To query metric values, here are the following parameters that are available:

| Parameter | Description  | Example    | Type |
| --------- | -----------| ------------ | -------------------- |
| `metrics`   | The metric name as defined in your dbt metric configuration   | `metrics=['revenue']` | Required    |
| `group_by`  | Dimension names or entities to group by. We require a reference to the entity of the dimension (other than for the primary time dimension), which is pre-appended to the front of the dimension name with a double underscore. | `group_by=['user__country', 'metric_time']`     | Optional   |
| `grain`   | A parameter specific to any time dimension and changes the grain of the data from the default for the metric. | `group_by=[Dimension('metric_time')` <br/> `grain('week\|day\|month\|quarter\|year')]` | Optional     |
| `where`     | A where clause that allows you to filter on dimensions and entities using parameters  - comes with `TimeDimension`, `Dimension`, and `Entity` objects. Granularity is required with `TimeDimension`  | `"{{ where=Dimension('customer__country') }} = 'US')"`   | Optional   |
| `limit`   | Limit the data returned    | `limit=10` | Optional  |
|`order`  | Order the data returned     | `order_by=['-order_gross_profit']` (remove `-` for ascending order)  | Optional   |
| `compile`   | If true, returns generated SQL for the data platform but does not execute | `compile=True`   | Optional |


## Note on time dimensions and `metric_time`

You will notice that in the list of dimensions for all metrics, there is a dimension called `metric_time`. `Metric_time` is a reserved keyword for the measure-specific aggregation time dimensions. For any time-series metric, the `metric_time` keyword should always be available for use in queries. This is a common dimension across *all* metrics in a semantic graph. 

You can look at a single metric or hundreds of metrics, and if you group by `metric_time`, it will always give you the correct time series.

Additionally, when performing granularity calculations that are global (not specific to a particular time dimension), we recommend you always operate on `metric_time` and you will get the correct answer. 

Note that `metric_time` should be available in addition to any other time dimensions that are available for the metric(s). In the case where you are looking at one metric (or multiple metrics from the same data source), the values in the series for the primary time dimension and `metric_time` are equivalent.


## Examples

Refer to the following examples to help you get started with the JDBC API.

### Fetch metadata for metrics

You can filter/add any SQL outside of the templating syntax. For example, you can use the following query to fetch the name and dimensions for a metric: 

```bash
select name, dimensions from {{ 
	semantic_layer.metrics() 
	}}
	WHERE name='food_order_amount'
``` 

### Query common dimensions

You can select common dimensions for multiple metrics. Use the following query to fetch the name and dimensions for multiple metrics: 

```bash
select * from {{ 
	semantic_layer.dimensions(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'])
	}}
``` 

### Query grouped by time

The following example query uses the [shorthand method](#faqs) to fetch revenue and new customers grouped by time:

```bash
select * from {{
	semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount','order_gross_profit'], 
	group_by=['metric_time'])
	}}
``` 

### Query with a time grain

Use the following example query to fetch multiple metrics with a change in time dimension granularities:

```bash
select * from {{
	semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'], 
	group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month')])
	}}
```

### Group by categorical dimension

Use the following query to group by a categorical dimension:

```bash
select * from {{
	semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'], 
	group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'), 'customer__customer_type'])
	}}
``` 

### Query with where filters

Where filters in API allow for a filter list or string. We recommend using the filter list for production applications as this format will realize all benefits from the <Term id="predicate-pushdown"  /> where possible. 

Where filters have the following components that you can use:

- `Dimension()` - This is used for any categorical or time dimensions. If used for a time dimension, granularity is required -  `Dimension('metric_time').grain('week')` or `Dimension('customer__country')`

- `TimeDimension()` - This is used for all time dimensions and requires a granularity argument - `TimeDimension('metric_time', 'MONTH)`

- `Entity()` - This is used for entities like primary and foreign keys - `Entity('order_id')`


Use the following example to query using a `where` filter with the string format:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'),'customer__customer_type'],
where="{{ TimeDimension('metric_time', 'MONTH') }} >= '2017-03-09' AND {{ Dimension('customer__customer_type' }} in ('new') AND {{ Entity('order_id') }} = 10")
}}
```

Use the following example to query using a `where` filter with a filter list format:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'),'customer__customer_type'],
where=[{{ TimeDimension('metric_time', 'MONTH')}} >= '2017-03-09', {{ Dimension('customer__customer_type' }} in ('new'), {{ Entity('order_id') }} = 10])
}}
```

### Query with a limit and order by

Use the following example to query using a `limit` or `order_by` clauses:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
  group_by=[Dimension('metric_time')],
  limit=10,
  order_by=['order_gross_profit'])
  }}
``` 
### Query with compile keyword

Use the following example to query using a `compile` keyword:

```bash
select * from {{
semantic_layer.query(metrics=['food_order_amount', 'order_gross_profit'],
		group_by=[Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'),'customer__customer_type'],
		compile=True)
		}}
```

## FAQs

- **Why do some dimensions use different syntax, like `metric_time` versus `[Dimension('metric_time')`?**<br />
	When you select a dimension on its own, such as `metric_time` you can use the shorthand method which doesn't need the “Dimension” syntax. However, when you perform operations on the dimension, such as adding granularity, the object syntax `[Dimension('metric_time')` is required. 

- **What does the double underscore `"__"` syntax in dimensions mean?**<br />
	The double underscore `"__"` syntax indicates a mapping from an entity to a dimension, as well as where the dimension is located. For example, `user__country` means someone is looking at the `country` dimension from the `user` table.

- **What is the default output when adding granularity?**<br />
	The default output follows the format `{time_dimension_name}__{granularity_level}`. So for example, if the time dimension name is `ds` and the granularity level is yearly, the output is `ds__year`.

## Related docs

- [dbt Semantic Layer integration best practices](/guides/dbt-ecosystem/sl-partner-integration-guide)
