---
title: 'dbt Cloud: Create a project'
sidebar_label: dbt Cloud
id: create-a-project-dbt-cloud
description: Now that we're set up, let's create a starter project with example models in dbt Cloud.
---

Now that we've successfully run our sample query in Snowflake, and chosen the way we want to develop, we can create a dbt project! In this step, we'll create a starter project with example models, before we build our own models.

:::info

These are the instructions for developing a project in dbt Cloud. If you're
using the dbt CLI, follow the instructions [here](/learn/create-a-project-dbt-cli).

:::

:::caution
<strong>Learn students:</strong> please make sure you name your project "dbt Learn - [initialsurname]"
:::

<LoomVideo id="7386840381764d13b1d25f575719e218" />

## Create the starter project
:::info
You should have received an invitation to dbt Cloud. Please accept the invitation and create an account.
:::

1. Login to [dbt Cloud](https://cloud.getdbt.com/login/). If you are also part of another organization's account, ensure you select "dbt Learn" as your account in the header bar.
2. Create a new project in dbt Cloud:
    * Click the hamburger menu, then `Account Settings`, then `Projects`.
    * **Name your project "dbt Learn - [initialsurname]"** (e.g "dbt Learn - ccarroll"), and click `Save`. There's no need to fill in the other details.
    * Click the hamburger menu, and then `Home`.
    * Switch the project in the header bar to your new "dbt Learn - [initialsurname]" project. **Do not use another student's project**
3. Complete the project setup flow:
    * Connect to Snowflake using your provided credentials (also see below image)
    * Add a repository — choose the Github integration, and link to the repository you set up in the [Setting Up](/learn/setting-up) instructions.

<Lightbox src="/img/dbt-cloud-project-setup-flow.png" title="dbt Cloud Project Setup flow" />

<Lightbox src="/img/dbt-cloud-snowflake-connection.png" title="dbt Cloud Database Connection" />

<Lightbox src="/img/dbt-cloud-github-integration.png" title="dbt Cloud GitHub Integration" />

4. Go to the `Develop` interface by either:
    * Selecting `Start Developing`, or
    * Selecting the hamburger menu, and then `Develop`.
5. Select `Initialize a project` to create your project. You should see a directory structure with `.sql` and `.yml` files that were generated by the `init` command.
<Lightbox src="/img/starter-project-dbt-cloud.png" title="The starter project in dbt Cloud" />

6. Update the following values in the `dbt_project.yml` file:

<File name='dbt_project.yml'>

```yaml
name: jaffle_shop # this normally says my_new_package
config-version: 2 # you must be using dbt v0.17.0 for this to work
...

models:
  jaffle_shop: #this normally says my_new_package. It should match the value for `name:`
    ...
```

</File>

## Perform your first dbt run
Our sample project has some example models in it. We're going to check that we can run them to confirm everything is in order. In the terminal bar at the bottom of the screen, type in `dbt run` and hit enter.

<Lightbox src="/img/successful-starter-project-run-dbt-cloud.png" title="A successful run of the starter project in dbt Cloud" />

## Commit your changes
We need to commit our changes so that our repository has up-to-date code. Click the `commit` button, with a message like "Create a starter project"

<Lightbox src="/img/first-commit-dbt-cloud.png" title="Commit your changes" />
