website/docs/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs.md, before:

---
title: "Deploy jobs"
description: "Learn how to create and schedule deploy jobs in dbt Cloud for the scheduler to run. When you run with dbt Cloud, you get built-in observability, logging, and alerting." 
tags: [scheduler]
---

You can use deploy jobs to build production data assets. Deploy jobs make it easy to run dbt commands against a project in your cloud data platform, triggered either by schedule or events. Each job run in dbt Cloud will have an entry in the job's run history and a detailed run overview, which provides you with:

- Job trigger type
- Commit SHA
- Environment name
- Sources and documentation info, if applicable
- Job run details, including run timing, [model timing data](#model-timing), and [artifacts](/docs/deploy/artifacts)
- Detailed run steps with logs and their run step statuses

You can create a deploy job and configure it to run on [scheduled days and times](#schedule-days) or enter a [custom cron schedule](#custom-cron-schedules). 

:::tip Join our beta 

dbt Labs is currently running a beta that provides improved UI updates for setting up deploy jobs. For docs, refer to [Create and schedule jobs (Beta version)](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs?version=beta#create-and-schedule-jobs) on this page.

If you're interested in joining our beta, please fill out our Google Form to [sign up](https://forms.gle/VxwBD1xjzouE84EQ6).

:::

## Prerequisites

- You must have a dbt Cloud account and [Developer seat license](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users). If you don't, you can [sign up](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) for a [free account](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/). 
- You must have a dbt project connected to a [data platform](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections).
- You must have [access permission](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) to view, create, modify, or run jobs.
- You must set up a [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments). 

## Create and schedule jobs {#create-and-schedule-jobs}

<Tabs queryString="version">
<TabItem value="current" label="Current version" default>

1. Create a new deploy job by clicking **Deploy** in the header, click **Jobs**, and then **Create job**.
1. Provide a job name, for example "Hourly Customer Job". 
1. Under **Environment**, add the following:
    * **Environment** &mdash; Link to an existing deployment environment.
    * **dbt Version** &mdash; Select the dbt [version](/docs/dbt-versions/core). dbt Labs recommends inheriting the version from the environment settings.
    * **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) for any dbt cloud job to correspond to settings in your project.
    * **Threads** &mdash; The default value is 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads). Increase the thread count to increase model execution concurrency. 

1. Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) if you want to customize the behavior of your project.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/create-new-job.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your environment job settings"/>

5. Under **Execution Settings**, you can configure the fields needed to execute your job:

    * **Run Timeout** &mdash; Configure the number of seconds a run will execute before dbt Cloud cancels it. Setting this to 0 means it'll never time out runs for that job.   
    * **Defer to a previous run state** &mdash; Select a production job you want to defer to. This enables dbt Cloud to examine the artifacts from the most recent, successful run of that deferred job, enabling state comparison and rewiring of upstream dependencies to any model that doesn’t exist in the current run's schema. 
    * **Generate docs on run** checkbox &mdash; Configure the job to automatically [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) each time this job runs.
    * **Run on source freshness** checkbox &mdash;  Configure [dbt source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) as the first step of the job without breaking subsequent steps.
    * **Commands** &mdash; Add or remove [job commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands), which are specific tasks you set in your dbt Cloud jobs.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/execution-settings.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your execution job settings"/>

6. Under the **Triggers** section, you can configure when and how dbt will trigger the deploy job.

    * **Schedule** tab &mdash; Enable the **Run on schedule** option. Use either the [scheduled days](#schedule-days) or the [custom cron schedule](#custom-cron-schedule) method to configure your desired days, times, and intervals for running your deploy job.
    * **Continuous Integration** tab &mdash; Configure [continuous integration (CI)](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository.
    * **API** tab &mdash; Use the [dbt API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) to trigger a job.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/triggers.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your job triggers"/>

7. Select **Save**, then click **Run Now** to run your deploy job. Click the run and watch its progress under **Run history**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="beta" label="Beta version">

1. On your deployment environment page, click **Create Job** > **Deploy Job** to create a new deploy job. 
2. Options in the **Job Description** section:
    - **Job Name** &mdash; Specify the name for the deploy job. For example, `Daily build`.
    - **Environment** &mdash;  By default, it’s set to the deployment environment you created the deploy job from.
3. Options in the **Execution Settings** section:
    - **Commands** &mdash; By default, it includes the `dbt build` command. Click **Add command** to add more [commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands) that you want to be invoked when the job runs.
    - **Generate docs on run** &mdash; Enable this option if you want to [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) when this deploy job runs.
    - **Run source freshness** &mdash; Enable this option to invoke the `dbt source freshness` command before running the deploy job. Refer to [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) for more details.
4. Options in the **Schedule** section:
    - **Run on schedule** &mdash; Enable this option to run the deploy job on a set schedule.
    - **Timing** &mdash; Specify whether to [schedule](#schedule-days) the deploy job using **Frequency** that runs the job at specific times of day, **Specific Intervals** that runs the job every specified number of hours, or **Cron Schedule** that runs the job specified using [cron syntax](#custom-cron-schedule).
    - **Days of the Week** &mdash; By default, it’s set to every day when **Frequency** or **Specific Intervals** is chosen for **Timing**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/create-deploy-job.png" width="90%" title="Example of Deploy Job page in dbt Cloud UI"/>

5. (optional) Options in the **Advanced Settings** section: 
    - **Environment Variables** &mdash; Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) to customize the behavior of your project when the deploy job runs.
    - **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) to customize the behavior of your project when the deploy job runs. Environment variables and target names are often used interchangeably. 
    - **Run Timeout** &mdash; Cancel the deploy job if the run time exceeds the timeout value. 
    - **Compare changes against an environment (Deferral)** option — By default, it’s set to **No deferral**.

    :::info
    Older versions of dbt Cloud only allow you to defer to a specific job instead of an environment. Deferral to a job compares state against the project code that was run in the deferred job's last successful run. While deferral to an environment is more efficient as dbt Cloud will compare against the project representation (which is stored in the `manifest.json`) of the last successful deploy job run that executed in the deferred environment. By considering _all_ deploy jobs that run in the deferred environment, dbt Cloud will get a more accurate, latest project representation state.
    :::

    - **dbt Version** &mdash; By default, it’s set to inherit the [dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/core) from the environment. dbt Labs strongly recommends that you don't change the default setting. This option to change the version at the job level is useful only when you upgrade a project to the next dbt version; otherwise, mismatched versions between the environment and job can lead to confusing behavior. 
    - **Threads** &mdash; By default, it’s set to 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads). Increase the thread count to increase model execution concurrency.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/deploy-job-adv-settings.png" width="90%" title="Example of Advanced Settings on Deploy Job page"/>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Schedule days

To set your job's schedule, use the **Schedule Days** option to choose specific days of the week, and select customized hours or intervals.

Under **Timing**, you can either use customizable hours for jobs that need to run frequently throughout the day or exact intervals for jobs that need to run at specific times:

- **Every n hours** &mdash; Use this option to set how often your job runs, in hours. Enter a number between 1 and 23 to represent the interval between job runs. For example, if you set it to "every 2 hours", the job will run every 2 hours from midnight UTC. This option is useful if you need to run jobs multiple times per day at regular intervals.

- **At exact intervals** &mdash; Use this option to set specific times when your job should run. You can enter a comma-separated list of hours (in UTC) when you want the job to run. For example, if you set it to `0,12,23,` the job will run at midnight, noon, and 11 PM UTC. This option is useful if you want your jobs to run at specific times of day and don't need them to run more frequently than once a day.

:::info

dbt Cloud uses [Coordinated Universal Time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) (UTC) and does not account for translations to your specific timezone or take into consideration daylight savings time. For example:

- 0 means 12am (midnight) UTC
- 12 means 12pm (afternoon) UTC
- 23 means 11pm UTC

:::

### Custom cron schedule

To fully customize the scheduling of your job, choose the **Custom cron schedule** option and use the cron syntax. With this syntax, you can specify the minute, hour, day of the month, month, and day of the week, allowing you to set up complex schedules like running a job on the first Monday of each month.


<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/job-schedule.png" title="Schedule your dbt job"/>

Use tools such as [crontab.guru](https://crontab.guru/) to generate the correct cron syntax. This tool allows you to input cron snippets and returns their plain English translations.

Refer to the following example snippets:


- `0 * * * *`: Every hour, at minute 0
- `*/5 * * * *`: Every 5 minutes
- `5 4 * * *`: At exactly 4:05 AM UTC
- `30 */4 * * *`: At minute 30 past every 4th hour (e.g. 4:30AM, 8:30AM, 12:30PM, etc., all UTC)
- `0 0 */2 * *`: At midnight UTC every other day
- `0 0 * * 1`: At midnight UTC every Monday.

## Related docs

- [Artifacts](/docs/deploy/artifacts)
- [Continuous integration (CI) jobs](/docs/deploy/ci-jobs)
- [Webhooks](/docs/deploy/webhooks)

Commit message:

Update deploy-jobs.md for self-deferral
The CI Phase 2 beta will now include the ability for Deploy jobs to self-defer. This will be useful for jobs running compile, source_freshness:fresher, and other commands that need to defer to the last successful state of that particular job.

Feel free to suggest other language as well, this is not perfect.

website/docs/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs.md, after:

---
title: "Deploy jobs"
description: "Learn how to create and schedule deploy jobs in dbt Cloud for the scheduler to run. When you run with dbt Cloud, you get built-in observability, logging, and alerting." 
tags: [scheduler]
---

You can use deploy jobs to build production data assets. Deploy jobs make it easy to run dbt commands against a project in your cloud data platform, triggered either by schedule or events. Each job run in dbt Cloud will have an entry in the job's run history and a detailed run overview, which provides you with:

- Job trigger type
- Commit SHA
- Environment name
- Sources and documentation info, if applicable
- Job run details, including run timing, [model timing data](#model-timing), and [artifacts](/docs/deploy/artifacts)
- Detailed run steps with logs and their run step statuses

You can create a deploy job and configure it to run on [scheduled days and times](#schedule-days) or enter a [custom cron schedule](#custom-cron-schedules). 

:::tip Join our beta 

dbt Labs is currently running a beta that provides improved UI updates for setting up deploy jobs. For docs, refer to [Create and schedule jobs (Beta version)](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs?version=beta#create-and-schedule-jobs) on this page.

If you're interested in joining our beta, please fill out our Google Form to [sign up](https://forms.gle/VxwBD1xjzouE84EQ6).

:::

## Prerequisites

- You must have a dbt Cloud account and [Developer seat license](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users). If you don't, you can [sign up](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) for a [free account](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/). 
- You must have a dbt project connected to a [data platform](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections).
- You must have [access permission](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) to view, create, modify, or run jobs.
- You must set up a [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments). 

## Create and schedule jobs {#create-and-schedule-jobs}

<Tabs queryString="version">
<TabItem value="current" label="Current version" default>

1. Create a new deploy job by clicking **Deploy** in the header, click **Jobs**, and then **Create job**.
1. Provide a job name, for example "Hourly Customer Job". 
1. Under **Environment**, add the following:
    * **Environment** &mdash; Link to an existing deployment environment.
    * **dbt Version** &mdash; Select the dbt [version](/docs/dbt-versions/core). dbt Labs recommends inheriting the version from the environment settings.
    * **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) for any dbt cloud job to correspond to settings in your project.
    * **Threads** &mdash; The default value is 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads). Increase the thread count to increase model execution concurrency. 

1. Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) if you want to customize the behavior of your project.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/create-new-job.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your environment job settings"/>

5. Under **Execution Settings**, you can configure the fields needed to execute your job:

    * **Run Timeout** &mdash; Configure the number of seconds a run will execute before dbt Cloud cancels it. Setting this to 0 means it'll never time out runs for that job.   
    * **Defer to a previous run state** &mdash; Select a production job you want to defer to. This enables dbt Cloud to examine the artifacts from the most recent, successful run of that deferred job, enabling state comparison and rewiring of upstream dependencies to any model that doesn’t exist in the current run's schema. 
    * **Generate docs on run** checkbox &mdash; Configure the job to automatically [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) each time this job runs.
    * **Run on source freshness** checkbox &mdash;  Configure [dbt source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) as the first step of the job without breaking subsequent steps.
    * **Commands** &mdash; Add or remove [job commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands), which are specific tasks you set in your dbt Cloud jobs.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/execution-settings.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your execution job settings"/>

6. Under the **Triggers** section, you can configure when and how dbt will trigger the deploy job.

    * **Schedule** tab &mdash; Enable the **Run on schedule** option. Use either the [scheduled days](#schedule-days) or the [custom cron schedule](#custom-cron-schedule) method to configure your desired days, times, and intervals for running your deploy job.
    * **Continuous Integration** tab &mdash; Configure [continuous integration (CI)](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository.
    * **API** tab &mdash; Use the [dbt API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) to trigger a job.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/triggers.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your job triggers"/>

7. Select **Save**, then click **Run Now** to run your deploy job. Click the run and watch its progress under **Run history**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="beta" label="Beta version">

1. On your deployment environment page, click **Create Job** > **Deploy Job** to create a new deploy job. 
2. Options in the **Job Description** section:
    - **Job Name** &mdash; Specify the name for the deploy job. For example, `Daily build`.
    - **Environment** &mdash;  By default, it’s set to the deployment environment you created the deploy job from.
3. Options in the **Execution Settings** section:
    - **Commands** &mdash; By default, it includes the `dbt build` command. Click **Add command** to add more [commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands) that you want to be invoked when the job runs.
    - **Generate docs on run** &mdash; Enable this option if you want to [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) when this deploy job runs.
    - **Run source freshness** &mdash; Enable this option to invoke the `dbt source freshness` command before running the deploy job. Refer to [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) for more details.
4. Options in the **Schedule** section:
    - **Run on schedule** &mdash; Enable this option to run the deploy job on a set schedule.
    - **Timing** &mdash; Specify whether to [schedule](#schedule-days) the deploy job using **Frequency** that runs the job at specific times of day, **Specific Intervals** that runs the job every specified number of hours, or **Cron Schedule** that runs the job specified using [cron syntax](#custom-cron-schedule).
    - **Days of the Week** &mdash; By default, it’s set to every day when **Frequency** or **Specific Intervals** is chosen for **Timing**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/create-deploy-job.png" width="90%" title="Example of Deploy Job page in dbt Cloud UI"/>

5. (optional) Options in the **Advanced Settings** section: 
    - **Environment Variables** &mdash; Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) to customize the behavior of your project when the deploy job runs.
    - **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) to customize the behavior of your project when the deploy job runs. Environment variables and target names are often used interchangeably. 
    - **Run Timeout** &mdash; Cancel the deploy job if the run time exceeds the timeout value. 
    - **Compare changes against ** option — By default, it’s set to **No deferral**. For Deploy jobs, you can select either no deferral, deferral to an environment, or self defer (to the same job).

    :::info
    Older versions of dbt Cloud only allow you to defer to a specific job instead of an environment. Deferral to a job compares state against the project code that was run in the deferred job's last successful run. While deferral to an environment is more efficient as dbt Cloud will compare against the project representation (which is stored in the `manifest.json`) of the last successful deploy job run that executed in the deferred environment. By considering _all_ deploy jobs that run in the deferred environment, dbt Cloud will get a more accurate, latest project representation state.
    :::

    - **dbt Version** &mdash; By default, it’s set to inherit the [dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/core) from the environment. dbt Labs strongly recommends that you don't change the default setting. This option to change the version at the job level is useful only when you upgrade a project to the next dbt version; otherwise, mismatched versions between the environment and job can lead to confusing behavior. 
    - **Threads** &mdash; By default, it’s set to 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads). Increase the thread count to increase model execution concurrency.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/deploy-job-adv-settings.png" width="90%" title="Example of Advanced Settings on Deploy Job page"/>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Schedule days

To set your job's schedule, use the **Schedule Days** option to choose specific days of the week, and select customized hours or intervals.

Under **Timing**, you can either use customizable hours for jobs that need to run frequently throughout the day or exact intervals for jobs that need to run at specific times:

- **Every n hours** &mdash; Use this option to set how often your job runs, in hours. Enter a number between 1 and 23 to represent the interval between job runs. For example, if you set it to "every 2 hours", the job will run every 2 hours from midnight UTC. This option is useful if you need to run jobs multiple times per day at regular intervals.

- **At exact intervals** &mdash; Use this option to set specific times when your job should run. You can enter a comma-separated list of hours (in UTC) when you want the job to run. For example, if you set it to `0,12,23,` the job will run at midnight, noon, and 11 PM UTC. This option is useful if you want your jobs to run at specific times of day and don't need them to run more frequently than once a day.

:::info

dbt Cloud uses [Coordinated Universal Time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) (UTC) and does not account for translations to your specific timezone or take into consideration daylight savings time. For example:

- 0 means 12am (midnight) UTC
- 12 means 12pm (afternoon) UTC
- 23 means 11pm UTC

:::

### Custom cron schedule

To fully customize the scheduling of your job, choose the **Custom cron schedule** option and use the cron syntax. With this syntax, you can specify the minute, hour, day of the month, month, and day of the week, allowing you to set up complex schedules like running a job on the first Monday of each month.


<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/job-schedule.png" title="Schedule your dbt job"/>

Use tools such as [crontab.guru](https://crontab.guru/) to generate the correct cron syntax. This tool allows you to input cron snippets and returns their plain English translations.

Refer to the following example snippets:


- `0 * * * *`: Every hour, at minute 0
- `*/5 * * * *`: Every 5 minutes
- `5 4 * * *`: At exactly 4:05 AM UTC
- `30 */4 * * *`: At minute 30 past every 4th hour (e.g. 4:30AM, 8:30AM, 12:30PM, etc., all UTC)
- `0 0 */2 * *`: At midnight UTC every other day
- `0 0 * * 1`: At midnight UTC every Monday.

## Related docs

- [Artifacts](/docs/deploy/artifacts)
- [Continuous integration (CI) jobs](/docs/deploy/ci-jobs)
- [Webhooks](/docs/deploy/webhooks)
