website/docs/docs/deploy/job-notifications.md, before:

---
title: "Job notifications"
id: "job-notifications"
description: "Set up notifications in dbt Cloud to receive email or Slack alerts about job run status."
---

Set up notifications in dbt Cloud to receive email or Slack alerts when a job run succeeds, fails, or is cancelled.

## Email notifications

You can receive email alerts about jobs by configuring the dbt Cloud email notification settings.

### Prerequisites 
- You must be either a _developer user_ or an _account admin_ to configure email notifications in dbt Cloud. For more details, refer to [Users and licenses](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users).
    - As a developer user, you can set up email notifications for yourself. 
    - As an account admin, you can set up notifications for yourself and other team members. 

### Configure email notifications

1. From the gear menu in the upper right corner, choose **Notification settings**.
1. By default, dbt Cloud sends notifications to the email address that's in your [User profile](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile) page.

    If you're an account admin, you can choose a different email address to send notifications to. Select the **Notification email** dropdown and choose another address from the list. The list includes **Internal Users** with access to the account and also **External Emails** that have been added. 
    - To add an external email address, select the **Notification email** dropdown and choose **Add external email**. After you add the external email, it becomes available for selection in the **Notification email** dropdown list. External emails can be addresses that are outside of your dbt Cloud account and also for third-party integrations like [channels in Microsoft Teams](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/tip-send-email-to-a-channel-2c17dbae-acdf-4209-a761-b463bdaaa4ca) and [PagerDuty email integration](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/email-integration-guide).

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-notification-external-email.png" width="50%" title="Example of the Notification email dropdown"/>

1. Select the **Environment** (in the dropdown) for the jobs you want to receive notifications about. 

1. Click **Edit** to configure the email notification settings. Choose one or more of the run statuses (**Succeeds**, **Fails**, **Is Canceled**) for each job you want to receive notifications about.

1. When you're done with the settings, click **Save**.
    
    To set up alerts on jobs from a different environment, select another **Environment** from the dropdown, **Edit** those job notification settings, and **Save** the changes.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-email-notification-settings-page.png" width="100%" title="Example of the Email notifications page"/>

### Unsubscribe from email notifications
1. From the gear menu in the upper right corner, choose **Notification settings**.
1. On the **Email notifications** page, click **Unsubscribe from all email notifications**. 

## Slack notifications

You can receive Slack alerts about jobs by setting up the Slack integration, then configuring the dbt Cloud Slack notification settings.

:::note 
Any account admin can edit the Slack notifications but they'll be limited to configuring the channels that the Slack user has access to. If there has been a change in user roles or Slack permissions where you no longer have access to edit a configured Slack channel, please [contact support](mailto:support@getdbt.com) for assistance. 
:::

### Prerequisites 
- You must be an administrator of the Slack workspace. 
- You must be an account admin to configure Slack notifications in dbt Cloud. For more details, refer to [Users and licenses](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users).

### Set up the Slack integration

1. Go to your [User profile](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile) page and scroll to the **Linked accounts** section.
1. In the **Linked accounts** section, find the Slack application and click **Link**.
   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/Link-your-Slack-Profile.png" width="75%" title="Link for the Slack app"/>
1. Allow dbt Labs to access the Slack workspace. If you are a member of multiple workspaces, you can select the appropriate workspace from the dropdown menu in the upper right corner.
   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/Allow-dbt-to-access-slack.png" width="75%" title="Allow dbt access to Slack"/>

### Configure Slack notifications

1. From the gear menu in the upper right corner, choose **Notification settings**. 
1. Select **Slack notifications** in the left sidebar. 
1. Select the **Notification channel** (in the dropdown) you want to send the job run notifications to. 
    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-notification-slack-channels.png" width="75%" title="Example of the Notification channel dropdown"/>
1. Select the **Environment** (in the dropdown) for the jobs you want to receive notifications about. 
1. Click **Edit** to configure the Slack notification settings. Choose one or more of the run statuses (**Succeeds**, **Fails**, **Is Canceled**) for each job you want to receive notifications about.
1. When you're done with the settings, click **Save**.
    
    To send alerts to another Slack channel, select another **Notification channel** from the dropdown, **Edit** those job notification settings, and **Save** the changes.

    To set up alerts on jobs from a different environment, select another **Environment** from the dropdown, **Edit** those job notification settings, and **Save** the changes.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-slack-notification-settings-page.png" width="100%" title="Example of the Slack notifications page"/>

### Disable the Slack integration

1. Go to your [User profile](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile) page and scroll to the **Linked accounts** section.
1. Find the Slack application in the **Linked accounts** section, click the trash can icon, and click **Unlink**. You will no longer receive Slack notifications. However, other account admins might still receive the notifications. If they want to stop receiving the notifications, they can update their [Slack notification configuration](#configure-slack-notifications) or disable the Slack integration on their dbt Cloud account.

Commit message:

Add info about sending email alerts to more people

website/docs/docs/deploy/job-notifications.md, after:

---
title: "Job notifications"
id: "job-notifications"
description: "Set up notifications in dbt Cloud to receive email or Slack alerts about job run status."
---

Set up notifications in dbt Cloud to receive email or Slack alerts when a job run succeeds, fails, or is cancelled.

## Email notifications

You can receive email alerts about jobs by configuring the dbt Cloud email notification settings.

### Prerequisites 
- You must be either a _developer user_ or an _account admin_ to configure email notifications in dbt Cloud. For more details, refer to [Users and licenses](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users).
    - As a developer user, you can set up email notifications for yourself. 
    - As an account admin, you can set up notifications for yourself and other team members. 

### Configure email notifications

1. From the gear menu in the upper right corner, choose **Notification settings**.
1. By default, dbt Cloud sends notifications to the email address that's in your [User profile](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile) page.

    If you're an account admin, you can choose a different email address to send notifications to. Select the **Notification email** dropdown and choose another address from the list. The list includes **Internal Users** with access to the account and also **External Emails** that have been added. 
    - To add an external email address, select the **Notification email** dropdown and choose **Add external email**. After you add the external email, it becomes available for selection in the **Notification email** dropdown list. External emails can be addresses that are outside of your dbt Cloud account and also for third-party integrations like [channels in Microsoft Teams](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/tip-send-email-to-a-channel-2c17dbae-acdf-4209-a761-b463bdaaa4ca) and [PagerDuty email integration](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/email-integration-guide).

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-notification-external-email.png" width="50%" title="Example of the Notification email dropdown"/>

1. Select the **Environment** (in the dropdown) for the jobs you want to receive notifications about. 

1. Click **Edit** to configure the email notification settings. Choose one or more of the run statuses (**Succeeds**, **Fails**, **Is Canceled**) for each job you want to receive notifications about.

1. When you're done with the settings, click **Save**.

    If there is another person you also want to send the notifications to, as an account admin, you can select another **Notification email** from the dropdown, **Edit** the job notification settings, and **Save** the changes.
    
    To set up alerts on jobs from a different environment, select another **Environment** from the dropdown, **Edit** those job notification settings, and **Save** the changes. 

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-email-notification-settings-page.png" width="100%" title="Example of the Email notifications page"/>

### Unsubscribe from email notifications
1. From the gear menu in the upper right corner, choose **Notification settings**.
1. On the **Email notifications** page, click **Unsubscribe from all email notifications**. 

## Slack notifications

You can receive Slack alerts about jobs by setting up the Slack integration, then configuring the dbt Cloud Slack notification settings.

:::note 
Any account admin can edit the Slack notifications but they'll be limited to configuring the channels that the Slack user has access to. If there has been a change in user roles or Slack permissions where you no longer have access to edit a configured Slack channel, please [contact support](mailto:support@getdbt.com) for assistance. 
:::

### Prerequisites 
- You must be an administrator of the Slack workspace. 
- You must be an account admin to configure Slack notifications in dbt Cloud. For more details, refer to [Users and licenses](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users).

### Set up the Slack integration

1. Go to your [User profile](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile) page and scroll to the **Linked accounts** section.
1. In the **Linked accounts** section, find the Slack application and click **Link**.
   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/Link-your-Slack-Profile.png" width="75%" title="Link for the Slack app"/>
1. Allow dbt Labs to access the Slack workspace. If you are a member of multiple workspaces, you can select the appropriate workspace from the dropdown menu in the upper right corner.
   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/Allow-dbt-to-access-slack.png" width="75%" title="Allow dbt access to Slack"/>

### Configure Slack notifications

1. From the gear menu in the upper right corner, choose **Notification settings**. 
1. Select **Slack notifications** in the left sidebar. 
1. Select the **Notification channel** (in the dropdown) you want to send the job run notifications to. 
    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-notification-slack-channels.png" width="75%" title="Example of the Notification channel dropdown"/>
1. Select the **Environment** (in the dropdown) for the jobs you want to receive notifications about. 
1. Click **Edit** to configure the Slack notification settings. Choose one or more of the run statuses (**Succeeds**, **Fails**, **Is Canceled**) for each job you want to receive notifications about.
1. When you're done with the settings, click **Save**.
    
    To send alerts to another Slack channel, select another **Notification channel** from the dropdown, **Edit** those job notification settings, and **Save** the changes.

    To set up alerts on jobs from a different environment, select another **Environment** from the dropdown, **Edit** those job notification settings, and **Save** the changes.

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/deploy/example-slack-notification-settings-page.png" width="100%" title="Example of the Slack notifications page"/>

### Disable the Slack integration

1. Go to your [User profile](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile) page and scroll to the **Linked accounts** section.
1. Find the Slack application in the **Linked accounts** section, click the trash can icon, and click **Unlink**. You will no longer receive Slack notifications. However, other account admins might still receive the notifications. If they want to stop receiving the notifications, they can update their [Slack notification configuration](#configure-slack-notifications) or disable the Slack integration on their dbt Cloud account.
