---
title: "Projects"
id: "projects"
---
<!---
Scaffold:
what is a project
how do i create a project
where are the related docs?
--->

## Getting started
A dbt project is a directory of `.sql` and `.yml` files, which dbt uses to transform your data. At a minimum, a dbt project must contain:
* A project file: A `dbt_project.yml` file tells dbt that a particular directory is a dbt project, and also contains configurations for your project.
* [Models](building-models): A model is a single `.sql` file. Each model contains a single select statement that either transforms raw data into a dataset that is ready for analytics, or, more often, is an intermediate step in such a transformation.

A project may also contain a number of other resources, such as [snapshots](snapshots), [seeds](seeds), [tests](testing), [macros](macros), [documentation](documentation), and [sources](using-sources).

## Creating a dbt project

<Callout type="info" title="Creating your first dbt project">

If you're new to dbt, we recommend that you check out our [Getting Started Tutorial](tutorial/1-setting-up.md) to build your first dbt project.

</Callout>


### dbt Cloud
To create a new dbt project when developing in dbt Cloud:

1. Create a dbt Cloud account [here](https://cloud.getdbt.com/signup/). If your organization already has a dbt Cloud account, ask an admin to add you as a Developer.
2. If you created a new account, a new project should automatically be created. If you were added to an existing account:
    * Click the hamburger menu, then `Account Settings`, then `Projects`.
    * Name your project "dbt Tutorial", and click `Save`. There's no need to fill in the other details.
    * Click the hamburger menu, and then `Home`.
    * Switch the project in the header bar to your new "dbt Tutorial" project.
3. Complete the project setup flow:
    * Connect to your data warehouse
    * Add a repository — either choose a managed repository, or

<Lightbox src="/img/dbt-cloud-project-setup-flow.png" title="dbt Cloud Project Setup flow" />

4. Go to the `Develop` interface by either:
    * Selecting `Start Developing`, or
    * Selecting the hamburger menu, and then `Develop`.
5. Select `Initialize a project` to create your project. You should see a directory structure with `.sql` and `.yml` files that were generated by the `init` command.

1. Create a new project
2. Connect the project to an empty repository
3. Select `Initialize a project` to create your project. A directory with `.sql` and `.yml` should be generated.

The [starter project](https://github.com/fishtown-analytics/dbt-starter-project) contains default configurations as well as helpful notes to get you started.

### dbt CLI
To create a new dbt project, run:

```bash
$ dbt init [project-name]
```

This will create a new directory in your current path (i.e. at `./[project-name]`. The [starter project](https://github.com/fishtown-analytics/dbt-starter-project) contains default configurations as well as helpful notes to get you started.

<FAQ src="project-name" />


## Using an existing project

### dbt Cloud
If your organization already has a dbt Cloud account, and you wish to develop your project using dbt Cloud, ask an admin to add you as a Developer.

### dbt CLI
To work on an existing project:
1. Ensure that the project is checked into a hosted git repository (for example, on GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket) that you have access to.
2. Clone the repository to your computer.


## Related documentation
* [`dbt_project.yml` configurations](reference/dbt_project.yml.md)
* The `dbt init` [command](running-a-dbt-project/command-line-interface/init.md)

## FAQS
<FAQ src="structure-a-project" />
