---
title: "dbt Semantic Layer updates and fixes for February 2024"
description: "Feb 2024 updates for dbt Semantic Layer & MetricFlow: New export features, enhanced date filters, Tableau, Google Sheets & GraphQL API enhancements, and bug fixes."
sidebar_label: "Updates and fixes: dbt Semantic Layer"
sidebar_position: 05
tags: [Feb-2024]
date: 2024-02-29
---

The dbt Labs team continues to work on adding new features, fixing bugs, and increasing reliability for the [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) and [MetricFlow](/docs/build/about-metricflow).

The following list explains the new features, updates, and fixes for February 2024 in more detail.

## dbt Semantic Layer
**New features**

- **New export capabilities** &mdash; You can access a list of your [exports](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/exports) with the new list saved-queries command by adding `--show-exports`
- **Relative date filters in Tableau** &mdash; The dbt Semantic Layer and [Tableau Connector](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/tableau) now supports relative date filters in Tableau.

**Updates**

- **Google Sheets integration** &mdash; The dbt Semantic Layer [Google Sheets integration](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/gsheets) now exposes a note on the cell where the data was requested, indicating clearer data requests. The integration also now exposes a new **Time Range** options, which allows you to quickly select date ranges.
- **GraphQL API enhancements** &mdash; The [GraphQL API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-graphql) includes a `requiresMetricTime` parameter to better handle metrics that must be grouped by time. (Certain metrics defined in MetricFlow can't be looked at without a time dimension).

**Bug fixes**

- **Date filter with Tableau Connector** &mdash; The Tableau Connector returns a date filter when filtering by dates. Previously it was erroneously returning a timestamp filter.

## MetricFlow
**New features**

- **Use exports to materialize saved queries** &mdash; [Exports](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/exports#define-exports) allow you to materialize a saved query as a table or view in your data platform. By using exports, you can unify metric definitions in your data platform and query them as you would any other table or view.

**Updates**

- **Metric querying** &mdash; Enable querying metrics with an offset and cumulative metrics with the time dimension name, instead of `metric_time`. [Issue #1000](https://github.com/dbt-labs/metricflow/issues/1000)
  - Enable querying `metric_time` without metrics. [Issue #928](https://github.com/dbt-labs/metricflow/issues/928)
- **SQL generation** &mdash; Added support for consistent SQL query generation, which enables ID generation consistency between otherwise identical MF queries. Previously, the SQL generated by `MetricFlowEngine` was not completely consistent between identical queries. [Issue 1020](https://github.com/dbt-labs/metricflow/issues/1020)

**Bug fixes**
-  **Improved query parameter validation** &mdash; MetricFlow now validates if there are `metrics`, `group by`, or `saved_query` items in each query. Previously, there was no validation. [Issue 1002](https://github.com/dbt-labs/metricflow/issues/1002)
- **Enhanced filtering for time spine joins** &mdash; Measures using `join_to_timespine` in MetricFlow now have filters applied correctly after time spine join.
- **Querying multiple granularities with offset metrics**:
  - If you query a time offset metric with multiple instances of `metric_time`/`agg_time_dimension`, only one of the instances will be offset. All of them should be.
  - If you query a time offset metric with one instance of `metric_time`/`agg_time_dimension` but filter by a different one, the query will fail.
- **Join type selection** &mdash; MetricFlow prioritizes a candidate join type over the default type when evaluating nodes to join. For example, the default join type for distinct values queries is `FULL OUTER JOIN`, however, time spine joins require `CROSS JOIN`, which is more appropriate.
- **Entity reference error in filter** &mdash; Fixed a bug that previously caused errors when entities were referenced in `where` filters.

**Dependencies**

- [Remove unused numpy dependency](https://github.com/dbt-labs/metricflow/issues/984)
- [Update Jinja2 past 3.1.3](https://github.com/dbt-labs/metricflow/issues/1049)
