---
title: "About documentation"
description: "Learn how good documentation for your dbt models helps stakeholders discover and understand your datasets."
id: "documentation"
pagination_next: "docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs"
pagination_prev: null
---

## Related documentation

* [Declaring properties](/reference/configs-and-properties)
* [`dbt docs` command](/reference/commands/cmd-docs)
* [`doc` Jinja function](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions)
* If you're new to dbt, we recommend that you check out our [quickstart guide](/quickstarts) to build your first dbt project, complete with documentation.

## Assumed knowledge

* [Tests](/docs/build/tests)

## Overview

Good documentation for your dbt models will help downstream consumers discover and understand the datasets which you curate for them.

dbt provides a way to generate documentation for your dbt project and render it as a website. The documentation for your project includes:
* **Information about your project**: including model code, a DAG of your project, any tests you've added to a column, and more.
* **Information about your <Term id="data-warehouse" />**: including column data types, and <Term id="table" /> sizes. This information is generated by running queries against the information schema.

Importantly, dbt also provides a way to add **descriptions** to models, columns, sources, and more, to further enhance your documentation.

Here's an example docs site:

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/building-a-dbt-project/dbt-docs-screenshot.png" title="Auto-generated dbt documentation website"/>

## Adding descriptions to your project
To add descriptions to your project, use the `description:` key in the same files where you declare [tests](/docs/build/tests), like so:

<File name='models/<filename>.yml'>

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: events
    description: This table contains clickstream events from the marketing website

    columns:
      - name: event_id
        description: This is a unique identifier for the event
        tests:
          - unique
          - not_null

      - name: user-id
        quote: true
        description: The user who performed the event
        tests:
          - not_null

```

</File>


## Generating project documentation
You can generate a documentation site for your project (with or without descriptions) using the CLI.

First, run `dbt docs generate` — this command tells dbt to compile relevant information about your dbt project and warehouse into `manifest.json` and `catalog.json` files respectively. To see documentation for all columns and not just columns described in your project, ensure that you have created the models with `dbt run` beforehand.

Then, run `dbt docs serve` to use these `.json` files to populate a local website.

## FAQs
<FAQ path="Project/example-projects" alt_header="Are there any example dbt documentation sites?"/>
<FAQ path="Docs/document-all-columns" />
<FAQ path="Docs/long-descriptions" />
<FAQ path="Docs/sharing-documentation" />
<FAQ path="Docs/document-other-resources" />
<FAQ path="Project/docs-for-multiple-projects" />


## Using Docs Blocks
### Syntax
To declare a docs block, use the jinja `docs` tag. Docs blocks can contain arbitrary markdown, but they must be uniquely named. Their names may contain uppercase and lowercase letters (A-Z, a-z), digits (0-9), and underscores (_), but can't start with a digit.

<File name='events.md'>

```markdown
{% docs table_events %}

This table contains clickstream events from the marketing website.

The events in this table are recorded by [Snowplow](http://github.com/snowplow/snowplow) and piped into the warehouse on an hourly basis. The following pages of the marketing site are tracked:
 - /
 - /about
 - /team
 - /contact-us

{% enddocs %}
```

</File>

In the above example, a docs block named `table_events` is defined with some descriptive markdown contents. There is nothing significant about the name `table_events` — docs blocks can be named however you like, as long as the name only contains alphanumeric and underscore characters and does not start with a numeric character.

### Placement
Docs blocks should be placed in files with a `.md` file extension. By default, dbt will search in all resource paths for docs blocks (i.e. the combined list of [model-paths](/reference/project-configs/model-paths), [seed-paths](/reference/project-configs/seed-paths), [analysis-paths](/reference/project-configs/analysis-paths), [macro-paths](/reference/project-configs/macro-paths) and [snapshot-paths](/reference/project-configs/snapshot-paths)) — you can adjust this behavior using the [docs-paths](/reference/project-configs/docs-paths) config.


### Usage
To use a docs block, reference it from your `schema.yml` file with the [doc()](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/doc) function in place of a markdown string. Using the examples above, the `table_events` docs can be included in the `schema.yml` file as shown below:

<File name='schema.yml'>

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: events
    description: '{{ doc("table_events") }}'

    columns:
      - name: event_id
        description: This is a unique identifier for the event
        tests:
            - unique
            - not_null
```

</File>

In the resulting documentation, `'{{ doc("table_events") }}'` will be expanded to the markdown defined in the `table_events` docs block.

## Setting a custom overview

The "overview" shown in the documentation website can be overridden by supplying your own docs block called `__overview__`. By default, dbt supplies an overview with helpful information about the docs site itself. Depending on your needs, it may be a good idea to override this docs block with specific information about your company style guide, links to reports, or information about who to contact for help. To override the default overview, create a docs block that looks like this:

<File name='models/overview.md'>

```markdown
{% docs __overview__ %}
# Monthly Recurring Revenue (MRR) playbook.
This dbt project is a worked example to demonstrate how to model subscription
revenue. **Check out the full write-up \[here](https://blog.getdbt.com/modeling-subscription-revenue/),
as well as the repo for this project \[here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/mrr-playbook/).**
...

{% enddocs %}
```

</File>

### Custom project-level overviews

You can set different overviews for each dbt project/package included in your documentation site
by creating a docs block named `__[project_name]__`. For example, in order to define
custom overview pages that appear when a viewer navigates inside the `dbt_utils` or `snowplow` package:

<File name='models/overview.md'>

```markdown
{% docs __dbt_utils__ %}
# Utility macros
Our dbt project heavily uses this suite of utility macros, especially:
- `surrogate_key`
- `test_equality`
- `pivot`
{% enddocs %}

{% docs __snowplow__ %}
# Snowplow sessionization
Our organization uses this package of transformations to roll Snowplow events
up to page views and sessions.
{% enddocs %}
```

</File>

## Navigating the documentation site
Using the docs interface, you can navigate to the documentation for a specific model. That might look something like this:

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/building-a-dbt-project/testing-and-documentation/f2221dc-Screen_Shot_2018-08-14_at_6.29.55_PM.png" title="Auto-generated documentation for a dbt model"/>

Here, you can see a representation of the project structure, a markdown description for a model, and a list of all of the columns (with documentation) in the model.

From a docs page, you can click the green button in the bottom-right corner of the webpage to expand a "mini-map" of your DAG. This pane (shown below) will display the immediate parents and children of the model that you're exploring.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/building-a-dbt-project/testing-and-documentation/ec77c45-Screen_Shot_2018-08-14_at_6.31.56_PM.png" title="Opening the DAG mini-map"/>

In this example, the `fct_subscription_transactions` model only has one direct parent. By clicking the "Expand" button in the top-right corner of the window, we can pivot the graph horizontally and view the full <Term id="data-lineage">lineage</Term> for our model. This lineage is filterable using the `--select` and `--exclude` flags, which are consistent with the semantics of [model selection syntax](/reference/node-selection/syntax). Further, you can right-click to interact with the DAG, jump to documentation, or share links to your graph visualization with your coworkers.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/building-a-dbt-project/testing-and-documentation/ac97fba-Screen_Shot_2018-08-14_at_6.35.14_PM.png" title="The full lineage for a dbt model"/>

## Deploying the documentation site

:::caution Security

The `dbt docs serve` command is only intended for local/development hosting of the documentation site. Please use one of the methods listed below (or similar) to ensure that your documentation site is hosted securely!

:::

dbt's documentation website was built to make it easy to host on the web. The site is "static,” meaning you don't need any "dynamic" servers to serve the docs. You can host your documentation in several ways:

* Use [dbt Cloud](/docs/collaborate/documentation)
* Host on [Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/WebsiteHosting.html) (optionally [with IP access restrictions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/example-bucket-policies.html#example-bucket-policies-use-case-3))
* Publish with [Netlify](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/publishing-dbt-docs-to-netlify/121)
* Use your own web server like Apache/Nginx
