---
title: "Upgrading to 0.17.0"
id: "upgrading-to-0-17-0"

---

dbt v0.17.0 makes compilation more consistent, improves performance, and fixes a number of bugs.

## Articles:

 - [Changelog](https://github.com/fishtown-analytics/dbt/blob/dev/octavius-catto/CHANGELOG.md)

## Notable changes

Please be aware of the following changes in 0.17.0 that may require a code update in your dbt project.

### A new dbt_project.yml config version

dbt v0.17.0 introduces a new config version for the `dbt_project.yml` file. This new config version changes the semantics of how dbt interprets the `dbt_project.yml` file.

#### Specifying a config version

A config version can be declared using the `config-version` key in the `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
name: my_project
version: 1.0.0

config-version: 2

models:
  ...
```

The accepted values for `config-version` are `1` and `2`. When the `config-version: 2` is used, some new functionality in dbt is unlocked.

#### Using config-version: 2

##### Better variable scoping semantics

Previous releases of dbt allowed variables (`vars:`) to be scoped to a folder level in the `models:` hierarchy. This presents a few problems:

- The vars should only _really_ be applied to _models_ (as the variable declaration lives in the `models:` config), but variables are also often referenced in tests, `schema.yml` files, macros, snapshots, and so on.
- There is an ambiguity in how variables are resolved in `schema.yml` files. Consider the case where a `schema.yml` file is scoped with one value for a variable, but the model it references is scoped with a different value for the same variable. The behavior of `var()` in this scenario is poorly defined, and often not what you would expect.

In version 2 of the `dbt_project.yml` config, vars must now be defined in a top-level `vars:` dictionary, eg:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

name: my_project
version: 1.0.0

config-version: 2

vars:
  my_var: 1
  another_var: true
  
models:
  ...
```

This syntax makes variable scoping unambiguous, as all of the nodes in a given package will receive the same value for a given variable. Note that this syntax _does_ still support package-level variable scoping. See the docs on the `dbt_project.yml` file syntax for more information.

##### Unambiguous resource configurations

Version 1 of the `dbt_project.yml` file spec allowed for ambiguous model configurations when dictionary configs were defined in a `models:` block. Consider:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

models:
  my_project:
    reporting:
      partition_by:
        field: date_day
        data_type: timestamp	
      
```

This example is intended to configure a `partition_by` setting for all of the BigQuery models in the `models/reporting/` folder. From the syntax in this file alone though, there are two possible interpretations:

- Configure the `partition_by` value for models in the `models/reporting` folder
- Configure the `field` and `data_type` values for models in the `models/reporting/partition_by` folder

To resolve this ambiguity, configurations can now be supplied using the `+` syntax for config keys. For the example above, this would look like:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

models:
  my_project:
    reporting:
      +partition_by:
        field: date_day
        data_type: timestamp
```

This syntax unambiguously defines `partition_by` as a configuration with a dictionary value of `{field: date_day, data_type: timestamp}`. This `+` decorator can be used for _any_ configuration, and can be helpful if you have a folder name that collides with a known dbt project config key. Example:

```yml
# Your model lives in models/materialized/my_model.sql

models:
  my_project:
    materialized:
      +materialized: table

```

This configuration will work in dbt v0.17.0 when `config-version: 2` is used, but was not possible to represent in previous versions of dbt.

##### Upgrading instructions

- Add `config-version: 2` to your `dbt_project.yml` file
- Ensure that all `vars:` declarations in your `dbt_project.yml` file have been moved to the top-level of the file
- Ensure that any packages that your project references are also declared with `config-version: 2`

Support for version 1 will be removed in a future release of dbt.

### Accessing sources in the `graph` object

In previous versions of dbt, the `sources` in a dbt project could be accessed in the compilation context using the [graph.nodes](jinja-context/graph) context variable. In dbt v0.17.0, these sources have been moved out of the `graph.nodes` dictionary and into a new `graph.sources` dictionary. This change is also reflected in the `manifest.json` artifact produced by dbt. If you are accessing these sources programmatically, please update any references from `graph.nodes` to `graph.sources` instead.

### BigQuery `locations` removed from Catalog

As a workaround for permission issues encountered by many dbt users, the `location` field has been removed from the Catalog generated by dbt. Accordingly, this field will no longer be visible in the auto-generated dbt documentation website. This field may be re-added in a future release of dbt.

## Python requirements

If you are installing dbt in a Python environment alongside other Python modules,
please be mindful of the following changes to dbt's Python dependencies:

- To come

## New and changed documentation

- To come
