---
title: 'dbt Cloud: Create a project'
sidebar_label: dbt Cloud
id: create-a-project-dbt-cloud
next_id: build-your-first-models
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import Alert from '@site/src/components/alert';
import LoomVideo from '@site/src/components/loom';
import FAQ from '@site/src/components/faqs';
import Lightbox from '@site/src/components/lightbox';


Now that we've successfully run our sample query in BigQuery, and chosen the way we want to
develop, we can create a dbt project! In this step, we'll create a starter project
with example models, before we build our own models.

<Alert type="info">
These are the instructions for developing a project in dbt Cloud. If you're
using the dbt CLI, follow the instructions <Link to="/tutorial/create-a-project-dbt-cli">here</Link>.
</Alert>

<LoomVideo id="7386840381764d13b1d25f575719e218" />

## Create the starter project
1. Create a dbt Cloud account [here](https://cloud.getdbt.com/signup/). If your
organization already has a dbt Cloud account, ask an admin to add you as a
Developer.
2. If you created a new account, a new project should automatically be created. If you were added to an existing account:
    * Click the hamburger menu, then `Account Settings`, then `Projects`.
    * Name your project "dbt Tutorial", and click `Save`. There's no need to fill in the other details.
    * Click the hamburger menu, and then `Home`.
    * Switch the project in the header bar to your new "dbt Tutorial" project.
3. Complete the project setup flow:
    * Connect to BigQuery using the credentials file from the [Setting Up](setting-up) instructions.
    * Add a repository — choose managed repository, and name it `dbt-tutorial`. If you're comfortable with git, you can also choose to link to an existing, but bare, repository.

<Lightbox src="/img/dbt-cloud-project-setup-flow.png" title="dbt Cloud Project Setup flow" />

4. Go to the `Develop` interface by either:
    * Selecting `Start Developing`, or
    * Selecting the hamburger menu, and then `Develop`.
5. Select `Initialize a project` to create your project. You should see a directory structure with `.sql` and `.yml` files that were generated by the `init` command.
<Lightbox src="/img/starter-project-dbt-cloud.png" title="The starter project in dbt Cloud" />

6. Update the following values in the `dbt_project.yml` file:
```yaml
name: jaffle_shop # this normally says my_new_package

...

models:
  jaffle_shop: #this normally says my_new_package. It should match the value for `name:`
    ...
```

## Perform your first dbt run
Our sample project has some example models in it. We're going to check that we
can run them to confirm everything is in order. In the terminal bar at the
bottom of the screen, type in `dbt run` and hit enter.

<Lightbox src="/img/successful-starter-project-run-dbt-cloud.png" title="A successful run of the starter project in dbt Cloud" />

## Commit your changes
We need to commit our changes so that our repository has up-to-date code. Click
the `commit` button, with a message like "Create a starter project"

<Lightbox src="/img/first-commit-dbt-cloud.png" title="Commit your changes" />