---
title: "Projects"
id: "projects"
---

## Related reference docs
* [`dbt_project.yml` configurations](reference/dbt_project.yml.md)
* The [`dbt init` command](init)

## Getting started
A dbt project is a directory of `.sql` and `.yml` files, which dbt uses to transform your data. At a minimum, a dbt project must contain:
* A project file: A `dbt_project.yml` file tells dbt that a particular directory is a dbt project, and also contains configurations for your project.
* [Models](building-models): A model is a single `.sql` file. Each model contains a single select statement that either transforms raw data into a dataset that is ready for analytics, or, more often, is an intermediate step in such a transformation.

A project may also contain a number of other resources, such as [snapshots](snapshots), [seeds](seeds), [tests](building-a-dbt-project/tests), [macros](jinja-macros#macros), [documentation](documentation), and [sources](using-sources).

## Creating a dbt project

:::info Creating your first dbt project

If you're new to dbt, we recommend that you check out our [Getting Started guide](/guides/getting-started) to build your first dbt project.

:::

If you don't yet have a dbt project, follow these instructions to create one. The dbt [starter project](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-starter-project) contains default configurations as well as helpful notes.


<Tabs
  defaultValue="cloud"
  values={[
    { label: 'dbt Cloud', value: 'cloud', },
    { label: 'dbt CLI', value: 'cli', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="cloud">

To create a new dbt project when developing in dbt Cloud:

1. Create a dbt Cloud account [here](https://cloud.getdbt.com/signup/). If your organization already has a dbt Cloud account, ask an admin to add you as a Developer.
2. If you created a new account, a new project should automatically be created. If you were added to an existing account:
    * Click the hamburger menu, then `Account Settings`, then `Projects`.
    * Name your project, and click `Save`. There's no need to fill in the other details.
    * Click the hamburger menu, and then `Home`.
    * Switch the project in the header bar to your new "dbt Tutorial" project.
3. Complete the project setup flow:
    * Connect to your data warehouse
    * Add a repository — either choose a managed repository, or connect to an existing, but bare, repository.

<Lightbox src="/img/dbt-cloud-project-setup-flow.png" title="dbt Cloud Project Setup flow" />

4. Go to the `Develop` interface by either:
    * Selecting `Start Developing`, or
    * Selecting the hamburger menu, and then `Develop`.
5. Select `Initialize a project` to create your project. You should see a directory structure with `.sql` and `.yml` files that were generated by the `init` command.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli">

To create a new dbt project, run:

```bash
$ dbt init [project_name]
```

This will create a new directory in your current path (i.e. at `./[project-name]`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### FAQs

<FAQ src="Project/project-name" />
<FAQ src="Project/structure-a-project" />


## Using an existing project

<Tabs
  defaultValue="cloud"
  values={[
    { label: 'dbt Cloud', value: 'cloud', },
    { label: 'dbt CLI', value: 'cli', },
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="cloud">
If your organization already has a dbt Cloud account, and you wish to develop your project using dbt Cloud, ask an admin to add you as a Developer.
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli">
To work on an existing project:
1. Ensure that the project is checked into a hosted git repository (for example, on GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket) that you have access to.
2. Clone the repository to your computer.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
