website/docs/guides/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-2-structures.md, before:

---
title: Deciding how to structure your dbt Mesh
description: Getting started with dbt Mesh patterns
hoverSnippet: Learn how to get started with dbt Mesh
---
## Exploring mesh patterns

When adopting a multi-project architecture, where do you draw the lines between projects?

How should you organize data workflows in a world where instead of having a single dbt DAG, you have multiple projects speaking to each other, each comprised of their own DAG?

Adopting the dbt Mesh pattern is not a one-size-fits-all process. In fact, it's the opposite! It's about customizing your project structure to fit _your_ team and _your_ data. Now you can mold your organizational knowledge graph to your organizational people graph, bringing people and data closer together rather than compromising one for the other.

While there is not a single best way to implement this pattern, there are some common decision points that will be helpful for you to consider.

At a high level, you’ll need to decide:

- Where to draw the lines between your dbt Projects -- i.e. how do you determine where to split your DAG and which models go in which project?
- How to manage your code -- do you want multiple dbt Projects living in the same repository (mono-repo) or do you want to have multiple repos with one repo per project?

## Define your project interfaces by splitting your DAG

The first (and perhaps most difficult!) decision when migrating to a multi-project architecture is deciding where to draw the line in your DAG to define the interfaces between your projects. Let's explore some language for discussing the design of these patterns.

### Vertical splits

Vertical splits separate out layers of transformation in DAG order. Let's look at some examples.

- **Splitting up staging and mart layers** to create a more tightly-controlled, shared set of components that other projects build on but can't edit.
- **Isolating earlier models for security and governance requirements** to separate out and mask PII data so that downstream consumers can't access it is a common use case for a vertical split.
- **Protecting complex or expensive data** to isolate large or complex models that are expensive to run so that they are safe from accidental selection, independently deployable, and easier to debug when they have issues.

### Horizontal splits

Horizontal splits separate your DAG based on source or domain. These splits are often based around the shape and size of the data and how it's used. Let's consider some possibilities for horizontal splitting.

- **Team consumption patterns.** For example, splitting out the marketing team's data flow into a separate project.
- **Data from different sources.** For example, clickstream event data and transactional ecommerce data may need to be modeled independently of each other.
- **Team workflows.** For example, if two embedded groups operate at different paces, you may want to split the projects up so they can move independently.

### Combining these strategies

- **These are not either/or techniques**. You should consider both types of splits, and combine them in any way that makes sense for your organization.
- **Pick one type of split and focus on that first**. If you have a hub-and-spoke team topology for example, handle breaking out the central platform project before you split the remainder into domains. Then if you need to break those domains up horizontally you can focus on that after the fact.
- **DRY applies to underlying data, not just code.** Regardless of your strategy, you should not be sourcing the same rows and columns into multiple nodes. When working within a mesh pattern it becomes increasingly important that we don't duplicate logic or data.

## Determine your git strategy

A multi-project architecture can exist in a single repo (monorepo) or as multiple projects, with each one being in their own repository (multi-repo).

- If you're a **smaller team** looking primarily to speed up and simplify development, a **monorepo** is likely the right choice, but can become unwieldy as the number of projects, models and contributors grow.
- If you’re a **larger team with multiple groups**, and need to decouple projects for security and enablement of different development styles and rhythms, a **multi-repo setup** is your best bet.

Commit message:

add cycle detection info
adding cycle detection link per slack feedback

website/docs/guides/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-2-structures.md, after:

---
title: Deciding how to structure your dbt Mesh
description: Getting started with dbt Mesh patterns
hoverSnippet: Learn how to get started with dbt Mesh
---
## Exploring mesh patterns

When adopting a multi-project architecture, where do you draw the lines between projects?

How should you organize data workflows in a world where instead of having a single dbt DAG, you have multiple projects speaking to each other, each comprised of their own DAG?

Adopting the dbt Mesh pattern is not a one-size-fits-all process. In fact, it's the opposite! It's about customizing your project structure to fit _your_ team and _your_ data. Now you can mold your organizational knowledge graph to your organizational people graph, bringing people and data closer together rather than compromising one for the other.

While there is not a single best way to implement this pattern, there are some common decision points that will be helpful for you to consider.

At a high level, you’ll need to decide:

- Where to draw the lines between your dbt Projects -- i.e. how do you determine where to split your DAG and which models go in which project?
- How to manage your code -- do you want multiple dbt Projects living in the same repository (mono-repo) or do you want to have multiple repos with one repo per project?

### Cycle detection

Currently, project dependencies only work in a one-way direction. This helps you avoid indefinite project `ref` cycles (or loops) and issues with your data workflows. For example, the `jaffle_finance"` project can't introduce a new model that depends on `jaffle_marketing.roi_by_channel`. Refer to [Project dependencies](/docs/collaborate/govern/project-dependencies#:~:text=...-,Cycle%20detection%3A,-Currently%2C%20%22project%22%20dependencies) for more information. 

## Define your project interfaces by splitting your DAG

The first (and perhaps most difficult!) decision when migrating to a multi-project architecture is deciding where to draw the line in your DAG to define the interfaces between your projects. Let's explore some language for discussing the design of these patterns.

### Vertical splits

Vertical splits separate out layers of transformation in DAG order. Let's look at some examples.

- **Splitting up staging and mart layers** to create a more tightly-controlled, shared set of components that other projects build on but can't edit.
- **Isolating earlier models for security and governance requirements** to separate out and mask PII data so that downstream consumers can't access it is a common use case for a vertical split.
- **Protecting complex or expensive data** to isolate large or complex models that are expensive to run so that they are safe from accidental selection, independently deployable, and easier to debug when they have issues.

### Horizontal splits

Horizontal splits separate your DAG based on source or domain. These splits are often based around the shape and size of the data and how it's used. Let's consider some possibilities for horizontal splitting.

- **Team consumption patterns.** For example, splitting out the marketing team's data flow into a separate project.
- **Data from different sources.** For example, clickstream event data and transactional ecommerce data may need to be modeled independently of each other.
- **Team workflows.** For example, if two embedded groups operate at different paces, you may want to split the projects up so they can move independently.

### Combining these strategies

- **These are not either/or techniques**. You should consider both types of splits, and combine them in any way that makes sense for your organization.
- **Pick one type of split and focus on that first**. If you have a hub-and-spoke team topology for example, handle breaking out the central platform project before you split the remainder into domains. Then if you need to break those domains up horizontally you can focus on that after the fact.
- **DRY applies to underlying data, not just code.** Regardless of your strategy, you should not be sourcing the same rows and columns into multiple nodes. When working within a mesh pattern it becomes increasingly important that we don't duplicate logic or data.

## Determine your git strategy

A multi-project architecture can exist in a single repo (monorepo) or as multiple projects, with each one being in their own repository (multi-repo).

- If you're a **smaller team** looking primarily to speed up and simplify development, a **monorepo** is likely the right choice, but can become unwieldy as the number of projects, models and contributors grow.
- If you’re a **larger team with multiple groups**, and need to decouple projects for security and enablement of different development styles and rhythms, a **multi-repo setup** is your best bet.
