website/docs/guides/microsoft-fabric-qs.md, before:

---
title: "Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Microsoft Fabric"
id: "microsoft-fabric"
level: 'Beginner'
icon: 'fabric'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Cloud','Quickstart']
recently_updated: true
---
## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Cloud with Microsoft Fabric. It will show you how to:

- Load the Jaffle Shop sample data (provided by dbt Labs) into your Microsoft Fabric warehouse. 
- Connect dbt Cloud to Microsoft Fabric.
- Turn a sample query into a model in your dbt project. A model in dbt is a SELECT statement.
- Add tests to your models.
- Document your models.
- Schedule a job to run.

:::tip Public preview

A public preview of Microsoft Fabric in dbt Cloud is now available! 

:::

### Prerequisites
- You have a [dbt Cloud](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) account.
- You have started the Microsoft Fabric (Preview) trial. For details, refer to [Microsoft Fabric (Preview) trial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/get-started/fabric-trial) in the Microsoft docs.
- As a Microsoft admin, you’ve enabled service principal authentication. For details, refer to  [Enable service principal authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/admin/metadata-scanning-enable-read-only-apis) in the Microsoft docs. dbt Cloud needs these authentication credentials to connect to Microsoft Fabric.

### Related content
- [dbt Courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections)
- [About continuous integration jobs](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration)
- [Deploy jobs](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs)
- [Job notifications](/docs/deploy/job-notifications)
- [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness)

## Load data into your Microsoft Fabric warehouse

1. Log in to your [Microsoft Fabric](http://app.fabric.microsoft.com) account.  
2. On the home page, select the **Synapse Data Warehouse** tile.

    <Lightbox src="/img/quickstarts/dbt-cloud/example-start-fabric.png" width="80%" title="Example of the Synapse Data Warehouse tile" />

3. From **Workspaces** on the left sidebar, navigate to your organization’s workspace. Or, you can create a new workspace; refer to [Create a workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/get-started/create-workspaces) in the Microsoft docs for more details.
4. Choose your warehouse from the table. Or, you can create a new warehouse; refer to [Create a warehouse](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-warehouse/tutorial-create-warehouse) in the Microsoft docs for more details.
5. Open the SQL editor by selecting **New SQL query** from the top bar. 
6. Copy these statements into the SQL editor to load the Jaffle Shop example data:

    ```sql
    DROP TABLE dbo.customers;

    CREATE TABLE dbo.customers
    (
        [ID] [int],
        [FIRST_NAME] [varchar] (8000),
        [LAST_NAME] [varchar] (8000)
    );

    COPY INTO [dbo].[customers]
    FROM 'https://dbtlabsynapsedatalake.blob.core.windows.net/dbt-quickstart-public/jaffle_shop_customers.parquet'
    WITH (
        FILE_TYPE = 'PARQUET'
    );

    DROP TABLE dbo.orders;

    CREATE TABLE dbo.orders
    (
        [ID] [int],
        [USER_ID] [int],
        -- [ORDER_DATE] [int],
        [ORDER_DATE] [date],
        [STATUS] [varchar] (8000)
    );

    COPY INTO [dbo].[orders]
    FROM 'https://dbtlabsynapsedatalake.blob.core.windows.net/dbt-quickstart-public/jaffle_shop_orders.parquet'
    WITH (
        FILE_TYPE = 'PARQUET'
    );

    DROP TABLE dbo.payments;

    CREATE TABLE dbo.payments
    (
        [ID] [int],
        [ORDERID] [int],
        [PAYMENTMETHOD] [varchar] (8000),
        [STATUS] [varchar] (8000),
        [AMOUNT] [int],
        [CREATED] [date]
    );

    COPY INTO [dbo].[payments]
    FROM 'https://dbtlabsynapsedatalake.blob.core.windows.net/dbt-quickstart-public/stripe_payments.parquet'
    WITH (
        FILE_TYPE = 'PARQUET'
    );
    ```

    <Lightbox src="/img/quickstarts/dbt-cloud/example-load-data-ms-fabric.png" width="80%" title="Example of loading data" />

## Connect dbt Cloud to Microsoft Fabric

1. Create a new project in dbt Cloud. From **Account settings** (using the gear menu in the top right corner), click **+ New Project**.
2. Enter a project name and click **Continue**.
3. Choose **Fabric** as your connection and click **Next**.
4. In the **Configure your environment** section, enter the **Settings** for your new project:
5. Enter the **Development credentials** for your new project:
    - **Authentication** &mdash; Choose **Service Principal** from the dropdown.
    - **Tenant ID** &mdash; Use the service principal’s **Directory (tenant) id** as the value.
    - **Client ID** &mdash; Use the service principal’s **application (client) ID id** as the value.
    - **Client secret** &mdash; Use the service principal’s **client secret** (not the  **client secret id**) as the value.
6. Click **Test connection**. This verifies that dbt Cloud can access your Microsoft Fabric account.
7. Click **Next** when the test succeeds. If it failed, you might need to check your Microsoft service principal.

## Set up a dbt Cloud managed repository 
<Snippet path="tutorial-managed-repo" />

## Initialize your dbt project​ and start developing
Now that you have a repository configured, you can initialize your project and start development in dbt Cloud:

1. Click **Start developing in the IDE**. It might take a few minutes for your project to spin up for the first time as it establishes your git connection, clones your repo, and tests the connection to the warehouse.
2. Above the file tree to the left, click **Initialize dbt project**. This builds out your folder structure with example models.
3. Make your initial commit by clicking **Commit and sync**. Use the commit message `initial commit` and click **Commit**. This creates the first commit to your managed repo and allows you to open a branch where you can add new dbt code.
4. You can now directly query data from your warehouse and execute `dbt run`. You can try this out now:
    - In the command line bar at the bottom, enter `dbt run` and click **Enter**. You should see a `dbt run succeeded` message.

## Build your first model
1. Under **Version Control** on the left, click **Create branch**. You can name it `add-customers-model`. You need to create a new branch since the main branch is set to read-only mode.
1. Click the **...** next to the `models` directory, then select **Create file**.  
1. Name the file `customers.sql`, then click **Create**.
1. Copy the following query into the file and click **Save**.

    <File name='customers.sql'>

    ```sql
    with customers as (

    select
        ID as customer_id,
        FIRST_NAME as first_name,
        LAST_NAME as last_name

    from dbo.customers
    ),

    orders as (

        select
            ID as order_id,
            USER_ID as customer_id,
            ORDER_DATE as order_date,
            STATUS as status

        from dbo.orders
    ),

    customer_orders as (

        select
            customer_id,

            min(order_date) as first_order_date,
            max(order_date) as most_recent_order_date,
            count(order_id) as number_of_orders

        from orders

        group by customer_id
    ),

    final as (

        select
            customers.customer_id,
            customers.first_name,
            customers.last_name,
            customer_orders.first_order_date,
            customer_orders.most_recent_order_date,
            coalesce(customer_orders.number_of_orders, 0) as number_of_orders

        from customers

        left join customer_orders on customers.customer_id = customer_orders.customer_id
    )

    select * from final
    ```
    </File>

1. Enter `dbt run` in the command prompt at the bottom of the screen. You should get a successful run and see the three models.

Later, you can connect your business intelligence (BI) tools to these views and tables so they only read cleaned up data rather than raw data in your BI tool.

#### FAQs

<FAQ path="Runs/checking-logs" />
<FAQ path="Project/which-schema" />
<FAQ path="Models/create-a-schema" />
<FAQ path="Models/run-downtime" />
<FAQ path="Troubleshooting/sql-errors" />

## Change the way your model is materialized

<Snippet path="quickstarts/change-way-model-materialized" />

## Delete the example models

<Snippet path="quickstarts/delete-example-models" />

## Build models on top of other models

<Snippet path="quickstarts/intro-build-models-atop-other-models" />

1. Create a new SQL file, `models/stg_customers.sql`, with the SQL from the `customers` CTE in our original query.
2. Create a second new SQL file, `models/stg_orders.sql`, with the SQL from the `orders` CTE in our original query.

    <File name='models/stg_customers.sql'>

    ```sql
    select
        ID as customer_id,
        FIRST_NAME as first_name,
        LAST_NAME as last_name

    from dbo.customers
    ```

    </File>

    <File name='models/stg_orders.sql'>

    ```sql
    select
        ID as order_id,
        USER_ID as customer_id,
        ORDER_DATE as order_date,
        STATUS as status

    from dbo.orders
    ```

    </File>

3. Edit the SQL in your `models/customers.sql` file as follows:

    <File name='models/customers.sql'>

    ```sql
    with customers as (

        select * from {{ ref('stg_customers') }}

    ),

    orders as (

        select * from {{ ref('stg_orders') }}

    ),

    customer_orders as (

        select
            customer_id,

            min(order_date) as first_order_date,
            max(order_date) as most_recent_order_date,
            count(order_id) as number_of_orders

        from orders

        group by customer_id

    ),

    final as (

        select
            customers.customer_id,
            customers.first_name,
            customers.last_name,
            customer_orders.first_order_date,
            customer_orders.most_recent_order_date,
            coalesce(customer_orders.number_of_orders, 0) as number_of_orders

        from customers

        left join customer_orders on customers.customer_id = customer_orders.customer_id

    )

    select * from final
    
    ```

    </File>

4. Execute `dbt run`.

    This time, when you performed a `dbt run`, separate views/tables were created for `stg_customers`, `stg_orders` and `customers`. dbt inferred the order to run these models. Because `customers` depends on `stg_customers` and `stg_orders`, dbt builds `customers` last. You do not need to explicitly define these dependencies.

#### FAQs {#faq-2}

<FAQ path="Runs/run-one-model" />
<FAQ path="Models/unique-model-names" />
<FAQ path="Project/structure-a-project" alt_header="As I create more models, how should I keep my project organized? What should I name my models?" />

<Snippet path="quickstarts/test-and-document-your-project" />

<Snippet path="quickstarts/schedule-a-job" />

Commit message:

Fast-follows for MS Fabric docs

website/docs/guides/microsoft-fabric-qs.md, after:

---
title: "Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Microsoft Fabric"
id: "microsoft-fabric"
level: 'Beginner'
icon: 'fabric'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Cloud','Quickstart']
recently_updated: true
---
## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Cloud with Microsoft Fabric. It will show you how to:

- Load the Jaffle Shop sample data (provided by dbt Labs) into your Microsoft Fabric warehouse. 
- Connect dbt Cloud to Microsoft Fabric.
- Turn a sample query into a model in your dbt project. A model in dbt is a SELECT statement.
- Add tests to your models.
- Document your models.
- Schedule a job to run.

:::tip Public preview

A public preview of Microsoft Fabric in dbt Cloud is now available! 

:::

### Prerequisites
- You have a [dbt Cloud](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) account.
- You have started the Microsoft Fabric (Preview) trial. For details, refer to [Microsoft Fabric (Preview) trial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/get-started/fabric-trial) in the Microsoft docs.
- As a Microsoft admin, you’ve enabled service principal authentication. For details, refer to  [Enable service principal authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/admin/metadata-scanning-enable-read-only-apis) in the Microsoft docs. dbt Cloud needs these authentication credentials to connect to Microsoft Fabric.

### Related content
- [dbt Courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections)
- [About continuous integration jobs](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration)
- [Deploy jobs](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs)
- [Job notifications](/docs/deploy/job-notifications)
- [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness)

## Load data into your Microsoft Fabric warehouse

1. Log in to your [Microsoft Fabric](http://app.fabric.microsoft.com) account.  
2. On the home page, select the **Synapse Data Warehouse** tile.

    <Lightbox src="/img/quickstarts/dbt-cloud/example-start-fabric.png" width="80%" title="Example of the Synapse Data Warehouse tile" />

3. From **Workspaces** on the left sidebar, navigate to your organization’s workspace. Or, you can create a new workspace; refer to [Create a workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/get-started/create-workspaces) in the Microsoft docs for more details.
4. Choose your warehouse from the table. Or, you can create a new warehouse; refer to [Create a warehouse](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-warehouse/tutorial-create-warehouse) in the Microsoft docs for more details.
5. Open the SQL editor by selecting **New SQL query** from the top bar. 
6. Copy these statements into the SQL editor to load the Jaffle Shop example data:

    ```sql
    DROP TABLE dbo.customers;

    CREATE TABLE dbo.customers
    (
        [ID] [int],
        [FIRST_NAME] [varchar] (8000),
        [LAST_NAME] [varchar] (8000)
    );

    COPY INTO [dbo].[customers]
    FROM 'https://dbtlabsynapsedatalake.blob.core.windows.net/dbt-quickstart-public/jaffle_shop_customers.parquet'
    WITH (
        FILE_TYPE = 'PARQUET'
    );

    DROP TABLE dbo.orders;

    CREATE TABLE dbo.orders
    (
        [ID] [int],
        [USER_ID] [int],
        -- [ORDER_DATE] [int],
        [ORDER_DATE] [date],
        [STATUS] [varchar] (8000)
    );

    COPY INTO [dbo].[orders]
    FROM 'https://dbtlabsynapsedatalake.blob.core.windows.net/dbt-quickstart-public/jaffle_shop_orders.parquet'
    WITH (
        FILE_TYPE = 'PARQUET'
    );

    DROP TABLE dbo.payments;

    CREATE TABLE dbo.payments
    (
        [ID] [int],
        [ORDERID] [int],
        [PAYMENTMETHOD] [varchar] (8000),
        [STATUS] [varchar] (8000),
        [AMOUNT] [int],
        [CREATED] [date]
    );

    COPY INTO [dbo].[payments]
    FROM 'https://dbtlabsynapsedatalake.blob.core.windows.net/dbt-quickstart-public/stripe_payments.parquet'
    WITH (
        FILE_TYPE = 'PARQUET'
    );
    ```

    <Lightbox src="/img/quickstarts/dbt-cloud/example-load-data-ms-fabric.png" width="80%" title="Example of loading data" />

## Connect dbt Cloud to Microsoft Fabric

1. Create a new project in dbt Cloud. From **Account settings** (using the gear menu in the top right corner), click **+ New Project**.
2. Enter a project name and click **Continue**.
3. Choose **Fabric** as your connection and click **Next**.
4. In the **Configure your environment** section, enter the **Settings** for your new project:
    - **Server** &mdash; Use the service principal's **host** value for the Fabric test endpoint. 
    - **Port** &mdash; 1433 (which is the default).
    - **Database** &mdash; Use the service principal's **database** value for the Fabric test endpoint. 
5. Enter the **Development credentials** for your new project:
    - **Authentication** &mdash; Choose **Service Principal** from the dropdown.
    - **Tenant ID** &mdash; Use the service principal’s **Directory (tenant) id** as the value.
    - **Client ID** &mdash; Use the service principal’s **application (client) ID id** as the value.
    - **Client secret** &mdash; Use the service principal’s **client secret** (not the  **client secret id**) as the value.
6. Click **Test connection**. This verifies that dbt Cloud can access your Microsoft Fabric account.
7. Click **Next** when the test succeeds. If it failed, you might need to check your Microsoft service principal.

## Set up a dbt Cloud managed repository 
<Snippet path="tutorial-managed-repo" />

## Initialize your dbt project​ and start developing
Now that you have a repository configured, you can initialize your project and start development in dbt Cloud:

1. Click **Start developing in the IDE**. It might take a few minutes for your project to spin up for the first time as it establishes your git connection, clones your repo, and tests the connection to the warehouse.
2. Above the file tree to the left, click **Initialize dbt project**. This builds out your folder structure with example models.
3. Make your initial commit by clicking **Commit and sync**. Use the commit message `initial commit` and click **Commit**. This creates the first commit to your managed repo and allows you to open a branch where you can add new dbt code.
4. You can now directly query data from your warehouse and execute `dbt run`. You can try this out now:
    - In the command line bar at the bottom, enter `dbt run` and click **Enter**. You should see a `dbt run succeeded` message.

## Build your first model
1. Under **Version Control** on the left, click **Create branch**. You can name it `add-customers-model`. You need to create a new branch since the main branch is set to read-only mode.
1. Click the **...** next to the `models` directory, then select **Create file**.  
1. Name the file `customers.sql`, then click **Create**.
1. Copy the following query into the file and click **Save**.

    <File name='customers.sql'>

    ```sql
    with customers as (

    select
        ID as customer_id,
        FIRST_NAME as first_name,
        LAST_NAME as last_name

    from dbo.customers
    ),

    orders as (

        select
            ID as order_id,
            USER_ID as customer_id,
            ORDER_DATE as order_date,
            STATUS as status

        from dbo.orders
    ),

    customer_orders as (

        select
            customer_id,

            min(order_date) as first_order_date,
            max(order_date) as most_recent_order_date,
            count(order_id) as number_of_orders

        from orders

        group by customer_id
    ),

    final as (

        select
            customers.customer_id,
            customers.first_name,
            customers.last_name,
            customer_orders.first_order_date,
            customer_orders.most_recent_order_date,
            coalesce(customer_orders.number_of_orders, 0) as number_of_orders

        from customers

        left join customer_orders on customers.customer_id = customer_orders.customer_id
    )

    select * from final
    ```
    </File>

1. Enter `dbt run` in the command prompt at the bottom of the screen. You should get a successful run and see the three models.

Later, you can connect your business intelligence (BI) tools to these views and tables so they only read cleaned up data rather than raw data in your BI tool.

#### FAQs

<FAQ path="Runs/checking-logs" />
<FAQ path="Project/which-schema" />
<FAQ path="Models/create-a-schema" />
<FAQ path="Models/run-downtime" />
<FAQ path="Troubleshooting/sql-errors" />

## Change the way your model is materialized

<Snippet path="quickstarts/change-way-model-materialized" />

## Delete the example models

<Snippet path="quickstarts/delete-example-models" />

## Build models on top of other models

<Snippet path="quickstarts/intro-build-models-atop-other-models" />

1. Create a new SQL file, `models/stg_customers.sql`, with the SQL from the `customers` CTE in our original query.
2. Create a second new SQL file, `models/stg_orders.sql`, with the SQL from the `orders` CTE in our original query.

    <File name='models/stg_customers.sql'>

    ```sql
    select
        ID as customer_id,
        FIRST_NAME as first_name,
        LAST_NAME as last_name

    from dbo.customers
    ```

    </File>

    <File name='models/stg_orders.sql'>

    ```sql
    select
        ID as order_id,
        USER_ID as customer_id,
        ORDER_DATE as order_date,
        STATUS as status

    from dbo.orders
    ```

    </File>

3. Edit the SQL in your `models/customers.sql` file as follows:

    <File name='models/customers.sql'>

    ```sql
    with customers as (

        select * from {{ ref('stg_customers') }}

    ),

    orders as (

        select * from {{ ref('stg_orders') }}

    ),

    customer_orders as (

        select
            customer_id,

            min(order_date) as first_order_date,
            max(order_date) as most_recent_order_date,
            count(order_id) as number_of_orders

        from orders

        group by customer_id

    ),

    final as (

        select
            customers.customer_id,
            customers.first_name,
            customers.last_name,
            customer_orders.first_order_date,
            customer_orders.most_recent_order_date,
            coalesce(customer_orders.number_of_orders, 0) as number_of_orders

        from customers

        left join customer_orders on customers.customer_id = customer_orders.customer_id

    )

    select * from final
    
    ```

    </File>

4. Execute `dbt run`.

    This time, when you performed a `dbt run`, separate views/tables were created for `stg_customers`, `stg_orders` and `customers`. dbt inferred the order to run these models. Because `customers` depends on `stg_customers` and `stg_orders`, dbt builds `customers` last. You do not need to explicitly define these dependencies.

#### FAQs {#faq-2}

<FAQ path="Runs/run-one-model" />
<FAQ path="Models/unique-model-names" />
<FAQ path="Project/structure-a-project" alt_header="As I create more models, how should I keep my project organized? What should I name my models?" />

<Snippet path="quickstarts/test-and-document-your-project" />

<Snippet path="quickstarts/schedule-a-job" />
