website/docs/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/selected_resources.md, before:

---
title: "About selected_resources context variable"
sidebar_label: "selected_resources"
id: "selected_resources"
description: "Contains a list of all the nodes selected by current dbt command."
---

The `selected_resources` context variable contains a list of all the _nodes_ 
selected by the current dbt command. 

Currently, this variable is not accessible when using the command `run-operation`.

:::danger Warning!

dbt actively builds the graph during the [parsing phase](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/execute) of
running dbt projects, so the `selected_resources` context variable will be
empty during parsing. Please read the information on this page to effectively use this variable.

:::

### Usage

The `selected_resources` context variable is a list of all the resources selected by 
the current dbt command selector. Its value depends on the usage of parameters like
`--select`, `--exclude` and `--selector`.

For a given run it will look like:

```json
["model.my_project.model1", "model.my_project.model2", "snapshot.my_project.my_snapshot"]
```

It can be used in macros in a `pre-hook`, `post-hook`, `on-run-start` or `on-run-end` 
to evaluate what nodes are selected and trigger different logic whether a particular node
is selected or not.

<File name='check-node-selected.sql'>

```sql

/*
  Check if a given model is selected and trigger a different action, depending on the result
*/

{% if execute %}
  {% if 'model.my_project.model1' in selected_resources %}
  
    {% do log("model1 is included based on the current selection", info=true) %}
  
  {% else %}

    {% do log("model1 is not included based on the current selection", info=true) %}

  {% endif %}
{% endif %}

/*
  Example output when running the code in on-run-start 
  when doing `dbt build`, including all nodels
---------------------------------------------------------------
  model1 is included based on the current selection


  Example output when running the code in on-run-start 
  when doing `dbt run --select model2` 
---------------------------------------------------------------
  model1 is not included based on the current selection
*/
```

</File>

Commit message:

Relationship between `selected_resources` and `graph` context variable

website/docs/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/selected_resources.md, after:

---
title: "About selected_resources context variable"
sidebar_label: "selected_resources"
id: "selected_resources"
description: "Contains a list of all the nodes selected by current dbt command."
---

The `selected_resources` context variable contains a list of all the _nodes_ 
selected by the current dbt command. 

Currently, this variable is not accessible when using the command `run-operation`.

:::danger Warning!

dbt actively builds the graph during the [parsing phase](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/execute) of
running dbt projects, so the `selected_resources` context variable will be
empty during parsing. Please read the information on this page to effectively use this variable.

:::

### Usage

The `selected_resources` context variable is a list of all the resources selected by 
the current dbt command selector. Its value depends on the usage of parameters like
`--select`, `--exclude` and `--selector`.

For a given run it will look like:

```json
["model.my_project.model1", "model.my_project.model2", "snapshot.my_project.my_snapshot"]
```

Each value corresponds to a key in the `nodes` object within the [graph](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/graph) context variable.

It can be used in macros in a `pre-hook`, `post-hook`, `on-run-start` or `on-run-end` 
to evaluate what nodes are selected and trigger different logic whether a particular node
is selected or not.

<File name='check-node-selected.sql'>

```sql

/*
  Check if a given model is selected and trigger a different action, depending on the result
*/

{% if execute %}
  {% if 'model.my_project.model1' in selected_resources %}
  
    {% do log("model1 is included based on the current selection", info=true) %}
  
  {% else %}

    {% do log("model1 is not included based on the current selection", info=true) %}

  {% endif %}
{% endif %}

/*
  Example output when running the code in on-run-start 
  when doing `dbt build`, including all nodels
---------------------------------------------------------------
  model1 is included based on the current selection


  Example output when running the code in on-run-start 
  when doing `dbt run --select model2` 
---------------------------------------------------------------
  model1 is not included based on the current selection
*/
```

</File>
