---
title: dbt Cloud: Create a project
sidebar_label: dbt Cloud
id: create-a-project-dbt-cloud
---
Now that we've successfully run our sample query, and chosen the way we want to
develop, we can create a dbt project! In this step, we'll create a starter project
with example models, before we build our first models.

> ℹ️ These are the instructions for developing a project in dbt Cloud. If you're
using the dbt CLI, follow the instructions [here](docs/create-a-project-dbt-cli).

<iframe width="640" height="400" src="https://www.loom.com/embed/7386840381764d13b1d25f575719e218" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Create the starter project
1. Create a dbt Cloud account [here](https://cloud.getdbt.com/signup/). If your
organization already has a dbt Cloud account, ask an admin to add you as a
Developer.
2. If you created a new account, a new project should automatically be created.
If you were added to an existing account:
    * Click the hamburger menu, then `Account Settings`, then `Projects`.
    * Name your project "dbt Tutorial", and click `Save`. There's no need to fill
  in the other details.
    * Click the hamburger menu, and then `Home`.
    * Switch the project in the header bar to your new "dbt Tutorial" project.
3. Complete the onboarding flow:
    * Connect to BigQuery using the credentials file from the [Setting Up](docs/setting-up)
    * Add a repository — choose managed repository (if you're comfortable with git,
  you can also choose to link to an existing, but bare, repository)
4. Click the hamburger menu, and then `Develop` to go to the dbt IDE (Integrated
Development Environment). Select `Initialize a project` to create your project.
You should see a directory structure with `.sql` and `.yml` files
that were generated by the `init` command.
5. Update the following values in the `dbt_project.yml` file:
```yaml
name: jaffle_shop # this normally says my_new_package

...

models:
  jaffle_shop: #this normally says my_new_package. It should match the value for `name:`
    ...
```

## Perform your first dbt run
Our sample project has some example models in it. We're going to check that we
can run them to confirm everything is in order. In the terminal bar at the
bottom of the screen, type in `dbt run` and hit enter.

## Commit your changes
We need to commit our changes so that our repository has up-to-date code. Click
the `commit` button, with a message like "Create a dbt project"
