website/docs/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-microsoft-fabric.md, before:

---
title: "Connect Microsoft Fabric"
description: "Configure Microsoft Fabric connection."
sidebar_label: "Connect Microsoft Fabric"
---

The following are the required fields for setting up a connection with a [Microsoft Fabric](https://docs.starburst.io/starburst-enterprise/index.html) using service principal authentication. 

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Server** | The service principal's **host** value for the Fabric test endpoint. |
| **Port** | The port to connect to Microsoft Fabric. By default, it's 1433 for the standard SQL server port number. |
| **Database** | The service principal's **database** value for the Fabric test endpoint. |
| **Authentication** | Choose **Service Principal** from the dropdown. | 
| **Tenant ID** | The service principal's **Directory (tenant) ID**. |
| **Client ID** | The service principal's **application (client) ID id**. |
| **Client secret** | The service principal's **client secret** (not the **client secret id**). |  


## Supported authentication methods

- Service principal in Azure Active Directory (AAD)
- Username/password in Azure Active Directory (AAD)

## Configuration 

To learn how to optimize performance with data platform-specific configurations in dbt Cloud, refer to [Microsoft Fabric DWH configurations](/reference/resource-configs/fabric-configs).

Commit message:

update supported auth methods section

website/docs/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-microsoft-fabric.md, after:

---
title: "Connect Microsoft Fabric"
description: "Configure Microsoft Fabric connection."
sidebar_label: "Connect Microsoft Fabric"
---

The following are the required fields for setting up a connection with a [Microsoft Fabric](https://docs.starburst.io/starburst-enterprise/index.html) using service principal authentication. 

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Server** | The service principal's **host** value for the Fabric test endpoint. |
| **Port** | The port to connect to Microsoft Fabric. By default, it's 1433 for the standard SQL server port number. |
| **Database** | The service principal's **database** value for the Fabric test endpoint. |
| **Authentication** | Choose **Service Principal** from the dropdown. | 
| **Tenant ID** | The service principal's **Directory (tenant) ID**. |
| **Client ID** | The service principal's **application (client) ID id**. |
| **Client secret** | The service principal's **client secret** (not the **client secret id**). |  


## Supported authentication methods
The two supported authentication methods are: 
- AAD service principal
- AAD password

SQL password (LDAP) is not supported in Fabric Synapse so you must use Azure Active Directory (AAD). This means that to use Microsoft Fabric in dbt Cloud, you will need at least one AAD service principal to connect dbt Cloud to Fabric, ideally one service principal for each user.

## Configuration 

To learn how to optimize performance with data platform-specific configurations in dbt Cloud, refer to [Microsoft Fabric DWH configurations](/reference/resource-configs/fabric-configs).
